Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results and/or the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including the following: The recent downturn in the residential real estate market has affected our results of operations, and further deterioration could have an adverse affect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay, and consequently our financial condition and results of operations. TSFG makes commercial, real estate and consumer loans predominately in South Carolina, western North Carolina and larger markets in Florida. A large portion of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral, which provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower, in some cases, has deteriorated in value during the past year. This deterioration has, to a large extent, been a result of the recent imbalance of supply and demand for residential real estate particularly in Florida and our coastal markets. If we are required to liquidate the collateral during this period of reduced real estate values, our profitability and financial condition could be further adversely affected. As the extent and duration of this downturn is not known, we must estimate, based on current portfolio knowledge and analysis, the amount of our probable losses when recording our allowance for loan losses. This estimate requires substantial judgment on the part of management which may or may not prove valid. TSFG commercial real estate loans comprised 40.7% of total loans at December 31, 2007, compared to 43.0% and 41.7% at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Also, a decline in home values could lead to higher charge-offs in event of default in both the consumer home 9 Table of Contents equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios. (See Tables 2, 3, and 4 under “Balance Sheet Review” for additional information on loan portfolio concentrations.) Our loans are predominately focused in three states and adverse economic conditions in those states, in particular, could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the concentration of loans in the same geographical region, adverse economic conditions in these areas could cause higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate, and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Also, a key marketing strategy targets the needs of owner-operated businesses with credit needs of under $5 million. These owner-operated businesses represent a major sector of regional economies. If these regional economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition may be affected. TSFG’s earnings are exposed to risks associated with movements in market interest rates. Market interest rate movements could adversely impact earnings, depending on TSFG’s interest rate risk mismatches at that time. In particular, rising interest rates would adversely impact earnings in the event that our liabilities reprice faster than assets, whereas falling interest rates would adversely impact earnings in the event our assets reprice faster than liabilities. If TSFG has a “mismatch” between the duration of its assets and the duration of its liabilities, and interest rates move as described in the previous sentence, its net interest income would be negatively affected. TSFG and its subsidiaries are extensively regulated and non-compliance with the USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts may result in fines or sanctions that may adversely affect results of operations. The USA Patriot and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although TSFG has developed policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, regulators may take enforcement action against TSFG in the event of noncompliance. TSFG is required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in changes to our reporting of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), income tax assets or liabilities, share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. TSFG’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented or outside parties may perpetrate a fraud, resulting in an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. TSFG can incur losses due to internal or external acts intended to defraud, misappropriate assets, or circumvent applicable law or the Company’s system of internal controls. Management regularly reviews and updates its internal controls and procedures. However, any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. An interruption or breach in security with respect to TSFG’s information systems, as well as information systems of TSFG’s outsourced service providers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Inability to achieve customer deposit growth could adversely impact profitability and liquidity. Because of a traditional focus on commercial lending, customer deposit funding has been low relative to peers, causing TSFG to utilize wholesale funding to a greater degree than some other peers. Customer deposits typically provide cost advantages versus 10 Table of Contents wholesale funding – generally to a greater degree in a higher interest rate environment. Accordingly, any future inability to achieve customer deposit growth and diversify funding sources could adversely impact earnings and, in the event of limited access to attractive wholesale funding markets, could hamper our ability to support attractive lending opportunities. Our stock price can be volatile in response to a number of factors. These factors include: variations in our quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to TSFG; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. We operate and make loans in hurricane-prone areas. Hurricanes destroy collateral and the service businesses that support the area, and may affect the demand for houses and services in hurricane-prone areas. Our results could be adversely affected if we suffered higher than expected losses on our loans due to weather events. TSFG has experienced significant growth through acquisitions and anticipates engaging in selected acquisitions in the future. There are risks associated with acquisitions. These risks include incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a particular institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated costs of incorporating acquired businesses into TSFG, and loss of key personnel and customers. Additionally, the valuation of any goodwill and other intangible assets associated with past acquisitions must be evaluated on an ongoing basis for impairment. This valuation requires substantial judgment which may or may not prove valid. Furthermore, we can give no assurance about the extent that TSFG can continue to grow through acquisitions. In the future, TSFG may issue capital stock in connection with additional acquisitions. These acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and ownership. TSFG does not currently have any definitive understandings or agreements for any acquisitions material to TSFG. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 