Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of certain factors that currently affect or may affect our business, operating results or the market price of our common stock. We have a concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. TSFG makes commercial, real estate and consumer loans predominately in South Carolina, western North Carolina and larger markets in Florida. A large portion of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral, which provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower, may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary markets specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral. If we are required to liquidate the collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. TSFG commercial real estate loans comprised 42.2% of total loans at December 31, 2006, compared to 41.7% and 40.0% at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Also, a decline in home values could lead to higher charge-offs in event of default in both the consumer home equity loan and residential real estate loan portfolios. (See Tables 2, 3, and 4 under “Balance Sheet Review” for additional information on loan portfolio concentrations.) Inability to achieve deposit growth targets could adversely impact profitability and liquidity. Because of a traditional focus on commercial lending, core deposit funding has been low relative to peers, causing TSFG to utilize wholesale funding to a greater degree than some other peers. Core deposits typically provide cost advantages versus wholesale funding – generally to a greater degree in a higher interest rate environment. Accordingly, any future inability to achieve targeted deposit growth and diversify funding sources could adversely impact earnings and, in the event of limited access to attractive wholesale funding markets, could hamper our ability to support attractive lending opportunities. TSFG’s earnings are exposed to risks associated with movements in market interest rates. Market interest rate movements could benefit or adversely impact earnings, depending on TSFG’s interest rate risk mismatches at that time. In particular, rising interest rates would adversely impact earnings in the event that our liabilities reprice faster than assets, whereas falling interest rates would adversely impact earnings in the event our assets reprice faster than liabilities. If TSFG has a “mismatch” between the duration of its assets and the duration of its liabilities, and interest rates move as described in the previous sentence, its net interest income would be negatively affected. 10 Table of Contents TSFG has credit and market risk resulting from the use of derivatives. We use derivatives to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk and to assist our customers with their risk management objectives. Derivatives used for interest rate risk management include various interest rate swaps, options, floors, and futures contracts. Options and futures contracts typically have indices that relate to the pricing of specific on-balance sheet instruments and forecasted transactions and may be more speculative in nature. By using derivative instruments, TSFG is exposed to credit and market risk. Derivative credit risk, which is the risk that a counterparty to a derivative instrument will fail to perform, is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in a derivative. Derivative credit risk is created when the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, since this generally indicates that the counterparty owes us. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or implied volatility of rates. The International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (Basel II) is currently applicable to only a few U.S. banks. Not being subject to Basel II may put us at a competitive disadvantage to those U.S. banks that are subject to these Standards, insofar as they may be able to operate with lower regulatory capital levels or increase the levels of risk they take. Also, should regulators impose these standards on currently non-Basel II banks, implementation could be costly and time-consuming. Hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. We operate and make loans in hurricane-prone areas. Hurricanes destroy collateral and the service businesses that support the area, and may affect the demand for houses and services in hurricane prone areas. Our results could be adversely affected if we suffered higher than expected losses on our loans due to weather events. Our loans are predominately focused in three states and adverse economic conditions in those states, in particular, could negatively impact results from operations and financial condition. Because of the concentration of loans in the same geographical region, adverse economic conditions could make it more difficult to attract deposits and could cause higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans were more geographically diversified. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Also, a key marketing strategy targets the needs of owner-operated businesses with credit needs of under $5 million. These owner-operated businesses represent a major sector of regional economies. If these regional economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition will be affected. TSFG has experienced significant growth through acquisitions and anticipates engaging in selected acquisitions in the future. There are risks associated with acquisitions. These risks include incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a particular institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated costs of incorporating acquired businesses into TSFG, and loss of key personnel and customers. Furthermore, we can give no assurance about the extent that TSFG can continue to grow through acquisitions. In the future, TSFG may issue capital stock in connection with additional acquisitions. These acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and ownership. TSFG does not currently have any definitive understandings or agreements for any acquisitions material to TSFG. Competition in our credit product offerings may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, or reduce our market share. A number of other banks and financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Our ability to attract customers is dependent upon a combination of price, quality, product mix, location and promotional strategies. In each of these areas, traditional and non-traditional competitors may attract our customers to their products by matching or exceeding what we offer. Other competitor-financial 11 Table of Contents institutions include brokerage firms, merchant banks, insurance companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, automobile financing companies and leasing companies. TSFG’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, resulting in an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. TSFG can incur losses due to acts intended to defraud, misappropriate assets, or circumvent applicable law or the Company’s system of internal controls. Management regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures. However, any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. An interruption or breach in security with respect to TSFG’s information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. TSFG continually encounters technological change, and we may not be able to keep pace with that which affects the financial services industry. This, together with losses due to inefficient execution, delivery or process management, could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 