Item 1A. Risk Factors TSFG is susceptible to certain risk factors that may affect its operations, as well as the market price of its common stock. Some of the specific risk factors include the following items. TSFG has experienced significant growth in commercial real estate loans, which were 41.7% of total loans at December 31, 2005, compared to 40.0% and 36.0% at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. This concentration is high relative to that of many banks, in particular banks in markets not experiencing strong population growth. Also, the majority of our loans finance properties located on the coast of South Carolina and Florida, regions susceptible to hurricanes. Hence, exposure to potential changes in real estate market conditions—due to changing economics or catastrophic weather—is relatively high. Risk management and quality control processes designed to manage exposure to these uncertainties are in place; however, a material decline in commercial real estate market conditions in one or more of TSFG’s markets could adversely impact the loan portfolios of those markets. (See Tables 2, 3, and 4 under “Balance Sheet Review” for additional information on loan portfolio concentrations.) TSFG has a lower level of core deposits and a higher level of wholesale funding, relative to its peer institutions. Over the past several years, TSFG has experienced significant growth in loans, particularly commercial and commercial real estate loans. Because its deposits have not grown at similar rates, TSFG has necessarily had to fund its loan growth with wholesale borrowings. During an environment when interest rates are rising and the related curve is flattening, this causes wholesale borrowing costs to increase disproportionately to loan yields. This results in less net interest income. TSFG has experienced significant growth through acquisitions, which could, in some circumstances, adversely affect net income. TSFG has experienced significant growth in assets as a result of acquisitions. Moreover, TSFG anticipates engaging in selected acquisitions of financial institutions and assets in the future. There are risks associated with TSFG’s acquisition strategy that could adversely impact net income. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a particular institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated costs of incorporating acquired businesses into TSFG and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. Furthermore, we can give no assurance about the extent that TSFG can continue to grow through acquisitions. Any future acquisitions would be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Acquisitions accounted for by the purchase method of accounting may lower the capital ratios of the entities involved. Consequently, in the event that TSFG engages in significant acquisitions in the future, TSFG may be required to raise additional capital in order to maintain capital levels required by its regulators. In the future, TSFG may issue capital stock in connection with additional acquisitions. These acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and ownership. TSFG does not currently have any definitive understandings or agreements for any acquisitions material to TSFG. However, as noted above, TSFG anticipates that it will continue to expand by acquisition in the future. TSFG has various anti-takeover measures that could impede the takeover of TSFG. TSFG has various anti-takeover measures in place, some of which are listed below. Any one or more of these measures may impede the takeover of TSFG without the approval of TSFG’s board of directors and may prevent shareholders from taking part in a transaction in which shareholders could realize a premium over the current market price of TSFG common stock. The anti-takeover measures include various charter provisions providing for, among other things, a “staggered” board of directors and supermajority voting requirements in connection with the removal of directors without cause and certain business combinations involving TSFG. TSFG has certain geographic concentrations. Substantially all of TSFG’s loans were to borrowers located in TSFG’s market areas in South Carolina, North Carolina, and Florida. Industry concentrations parallel the mix of economic activity in these markets, the most significant of which are the commercial real estate and tourism industries. Commercial construction and development loans represent the largest component of commercial real estate loan product types. 9 Table of Contents TSFG’s ability to maintain its historic performance will depend on the ability to expand the scope of its existing financial services to customers. TSFG competes, and will continue to compete, with well established banks, credit unions, insurance companies and other financial institutions, some of which have greater resources and lending limits than TSFG. Some of these competitors may also provide certain services that TSFG does not provide. TSFG’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Controls and procedures are particularly important for financial institutions. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. TSFG’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. TSFG continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. TSFG is subject to liquidity risk. Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in the section captioned “Liquidity”. TSFG is subject to interest rate risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds, as well as the impact of certain derivative hedging instruments. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. Additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned “Enterprise Risk Management — Market Risk and Asset/Liability Management”. TSFG has credit and market risk resulting from the use of derivatives. We use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate risk, to generate profits from trading and to assist our customers with their risk management objectives. Derivatives used for interest rate risk management include various interest rate swaps, options, and futures contracts. Options and futures contracts typically have indices that relate to the pricing of specific on-balance sheet instruments and forecasted transactions and may be more speculative in nature. By using derivative instruments, TSFG is exposed to credit and market risk. Derivative credit 10 Table of Contents risk, which is the risk that a counterparty to a derivative instrument will fail to perform, is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in a derivative. Derivative credit risk is created when the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, since this generally indicates that the counterparty owes us. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or implied volatility of rates. TSFG is exposed to credit risk in its lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. Loans to individuals and business entities, our single largest asset group, depend for repayment on the willingness and ability of borrowers to perform as contracted. A material adverse change in the ability of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligations to us, due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, natural disasters, acts of war, or other causes over which we have no control, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans, and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. We also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 