Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results and/or the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our ability to raise additional capital could be limited and this could affect our liquidity and could be dilutive to existing shareholders. In order to remain well capitalized under federal banking agencies’ guidelines and to satisfy higher regulatory capital expectations generally, we believe that we will need to raise substantial additional capital to absorb the potential future credit losses associated with the disposition of our nonperforming assets. We may also be required or choose to raise further additional capital for strategic, regulatory or other reasons. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we need to raise additional capital. In such case, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not materially dilutive to existing shareholders. Regulatory actions could have a material negative effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our common stock. Given our asset quality and earnings performance, if we are not able to substantially increase our regulatory capital in the near term, we believe that it is likely that our regulators would request that we stipulate to a consent order, to be entered into between the bank and each of its banking regulators. If this occurs we will become subject to additional, heightened enforcement actions and orders. The terms of any such consent order could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our common stock. 10 Index A consent order would, among other things, result in us being deemed “adequately capitalized” (irrespective of the fact that we may be “well capitalized”) and could require that we raise additional capital within a specified timeframe and limit our access to the brokered CD market and restrict the rates we can offer on customer deposits. If we are unable to raise the capital required or otherwise comply with the terms of any such consent order, further regulatory actions could be taken, and our ability to operate as a going concern could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, because such consent orders are public, there could be an adverse customer or market reaction to such announcement, which could put further pressure on our funding capability and liquidity needs. Our access to the capital markets and other sources of funding and liquidity remains under pressure. We fund our business operations through a combination of customer deposits, other customer funding and wholesale borrowing (including short-term and long-term borrowings as well as brokered deposits). These funding sources have been less available and have become more expensive in recent periods as a result of our financial performance, including the performance of our loan portfolio, decreased confidence in the financial markets generally among borrowers, lenders and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. Our customer deposit funding has been low relative to peers because of our traditional focus on commercial lending, which has caused us to utilize wholesale funding to a greater degree than some of our peers. Customer deposi ts typically provide cost and liquidity advantages relative to wholesale funding, particularly in a higher interest rate environment. We have been working to strengthen our liquidity by shifting into customer deposits, reducing our reliance on wholesale funding and, where we do rely on wholesale funding, shifting to longer-term and more diversified borrowings. However, we may not be successful in increasing customer deposits or otherwise improving our funding capability and liquidity. With increased concerns about bank failures, traditional deposit customers are increasingly concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from our subsidiary bank in an effort to ensure that the amount that they have on deposit is fully insured. The termination of the FDIC's temporary transactional account guarantee program, scheduled to occur June 30, 2010 could put further pressure on our ability to retain certain deposits. Any occurrence that limits participation in the capital markets or our access to the capital markets, such as the loss of access to the brokered CD market, the Federal Reserve Bank discount window or FHLB advances, a further downgrade of our debt ratings, or a loss of our well capitalized status, may adversely affect our capital costs, our ability to raise capital and our ability to raise capital on terms that meet our funding and liquidity needs. The failure to establish and maintain appropriate funding and capital markets access on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations, the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us and on the potential for criticism or adverse action by our regulators or the rating agencies.< /font> Among other things, if we fail to remain well capitalized for bank regulatory purposes, because we do not qualify under the minimum capital standards or the FDIC otherwise downgrades our capital category, it could affect customer confidence, the rates we are allowed to pay on customer deposits, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, and our ability to make acquisitions, and we would not be able to accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval. To be well capitalized, a bank must generally maintain a leverage capital ratio of at least 5%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. However, our regulators could require us to increase our capital levels. For example, regulators frequently require fi nancial institutions with high levels of classified assets to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 8% and could also impose other and even higher regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to remain well capitalized or to maintain any higher capital requirements imposed on us could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, generally. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The NASDAQ’s listing requires that companies have a minimum bid price of $1 per share. NASDAQ rules classify a security as “deficient” if it has a closing bid price of less than $1 per share for thirty consecutive business days. Once deficient, issuers have an automatic 180-day period to regain compliance by having a closing bid price of at least $1 per share for ten consecutive business days, and can receive an additional 180 days if all other listing requirements are met. On December 4, 2009, we received a letter from the NASDAQ notifying us of our non-compliance with such minimum bid price requirement. As a result, we have until June 2, 2010 to comply with the minimum bid price requirement. If we do not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by that date, we may appeal the delisting determination or we could be eligible for an additional grace period of 180 days if we apply to transfer the list ing of our common shares to The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we do not meet this listing requirement, liquidity in our stock could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Index Issuances or sales of common stock or other equity securities could result in an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the event an “ownership change” were to occur, our ability to utilize a significant portion of our U.S. federal and state tax net operating losses could be impaired, and we could lose certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes as a result of the operation of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our ability to use certain realized net operating losses and unrealized built-in losses to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An “ownership change” under Section 382 generally occurs if the aggregate percentage ownership of the stock of the corporation held by one or more “five-percent shareholders” increases by more than fifty percentage points over such shareholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally the three year-period ending on the transaction date. Upon an “ownership change,” a corporation generally is subject to an annual limitation on its utilization of pre-change losses and certain recognized buil t-in losses equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately before the “ownership change,” multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Since U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation also effectively provides a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-change losses and certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Pre-change losses and certain recognized built-in losses in excess of the cap are effectively lost. The relevant calculations under Section 382 are technical and highly complex. In some circumstances, issuances or sales of our stock (including any debt-for-equity exchanges and certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could result in an “ownership change” under Section 382. An “ownership change” could occur if, due to the sale or issuance of additional common stock, the aggregate ownership of one or more persons treated as “five-percent shareholders” were to increase by more than fifty percentage points over such shareholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the relevant testing period. As of December 31, 2009, our federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $468.5 million. If an “ownership change” were to occur, we believe we woul d permanently lose the ability to realize a portion of the net operating loss carryforwards and a portion of the net unrealized built-in losses, which could adversely impact our ability to recognize capital from the potential future release of our valuation allowance. If an “ownership change” were to occur, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-change losses and certain recognized built-in losses could cause a net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. Based on available information, we have estimated that the aggregate percentage ownership change over the testing period through the current date is approximately 45%. In reviewing the calculation, we have concluded that if we choose or are required to raise additional capital (including conversion of other capital instruments), an “ownership change” under Section 382 is likely. Also, due to the infrequent reporting requirements for “five-percent shareholders,” an “ownership change” could occur and not be known to us until reported by the new or existing “five-percent shareholder.” We are not able to estimate the impact of an “ownership change” because the limitation on the utilization of the pre-change losses and certain recognized built-in losses is calculated as of the date of the “ownership change” and is affected, among other things, by the value of our stock on that date. We have incurred significant losses and will incur additional losses. We incurred a net loss available to common shareholders of $736.9 million, or $5.22 loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $568.8 million, or $7.78 loss per share, for the year ended December 31, 2008. These losses are primarily a result of losses in our loan portfolio and associated write-offs of goodwill, as well as the increase in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, and we expect to continue to incur losses in 2010. Additional detail regarding various matters relating to our credit exposure, portfolio concentrations, nonperforming assets and related matters is included below. Our geographic and product concentrations and the downturn in the real estate market have significantly affected our results of operations, and further credit deterioration could have further adverse effects on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay, and consequently our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial, real estate and consumer loans are concentrated predominantly in South Carolina, western North Carolina and larger markets in Florida. In addition, commercial real estate 12 Index loans in South Carolina, North Carolina and Florida represented approximately 42% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Included in these commercial real estate loans are loans related to residential construction, which represented approximately 10% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Because of the concentration of real estate and other loans in the same geographic regions, adverse economic conditions in these areas have contributed to higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans had been more diversified on a geographic or product basis. The effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing decrease in commercial and residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in commercial and residential real estate values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. Prices of properties in South Carolina, North Carolina and Florida – where a large portion of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral – remain under significant pressure, with rising unemployment levels and the impact of the real estate downturn on the general economy. If we are required to liquidate the collateral during this period of reduced real estate values, our profitability and f inancial condition could be further adversely affected. As the extent and duration of this downturn is not known, we must estimate, based on current portfolio knowledge and analysis, the amount of our probable losses when recording our allowance for loan losses. This estimate requires substantial judgment on the part of management which may or may not prove valid and could be too low. As noted above, as part of our credit quality and risk management efforts, we have been seeking to reduce our levels of problem loans and nonperforming assets, address weaknesses in lending relationships and manage geographic and product lending concentrations. However, while we expect that these actions will help mitigate the overall effects of the credit down cycle, the weaknesses in our loan portfolio are expected to continue, and we will continue to have substantial geographic and product concentrations even with respect to new loans. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our nonperforming asset and charge-off levels will remain elevated and could accelerate as a result of efforts (including by further charge-offs and loan sales) to reduce our levels of problem loans. In addition, our regulators could require us to take more aggress ive measures in the future in connection with our nonperforming assets. If we are not successful in our efforts to successfully manage our existing loan portfolio or new lending activities, or if we experience higher than expected delinquencies and greater than expected charge-offs in future periods, we could experience additional credit losses that materially and adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our capital position. We are currently operating under increased regulatory scrutiny, and we could be exposed to increased potential for criticism or adverse action by our regulators or the rating agencies due to our credit quality. Credit losses, in particular credit losses in excess of what we anticipate, impact our earnings, capital, and operations. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their contractual terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and have had a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio relates principally to the creditworthiness of corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. Our credit risk management system is defined by policies approved by our board of directors that govern the risk, underwriting, portfolio monitoring, and problem loan administration processes. We seek to ensure adherence to underwriting standards through a credit approval process and after-the-fact review by credit risk management, and supervise compliance with underwriting and loan monitoring policies through daily reviews by credit risk managers, monthly reviews of exception reports and ongoing analysis of asset quality trends. We administer problem loans through the use of policies that require written plans for resolution and periodic meetings with credit risk management to review progress. Ultimately, credit risk management activities are monitored by our board of directors’ risk committee. As part of our credit quality eff orts, we continually assess the effectiveness of our policies and processes, and we have been and will continue to seek to reduce our levels of problem loans, address weaknesses in lending relationships and manage lending concentrations. However, our credit and risk management efforts are subject to substantial risks, including the risk of failure to develop adequate policies and procedures, failure to reduce problem loans and address lending and concentration weaknesses, failure of personnel to comply with our policies and procedures, assumptions and judgments that are not realized and other failures of our policies and procedures. Such failures could result in credit losses that exceed our expectations and adversely impact our financial condition, our capital position and the potential for criticism or adverse action by our regulators or the rating agencies. In connection with our credit risk management, business planning and forecasting, we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our 13 Index allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may need to increase our allowance in the future in response to regulatory requests, changing conditions and assumptions, or deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. A significant increase in insured institution failures during 2009 has resulted in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) to historical lows. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring substantially all institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased annual assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. As a result, an institution’s total base assessment rate for purposes of estimating an institution’s prepaid assessment for 2011 and 2012 will be increased by an annualized 3 basis points beginning in 2011. Again for purposes of calculating the amount that an institution will prepay, an institution’ s third quarter 2009 assessment base will be increased quarterly at a 5 percent annual growth rate through the end of 2012. At least semi-annually hereafter, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF. If necessary to return the reserve ratio to its mandated minimum, the FDIC could increase assessment rates during its restoration period, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The FDIC assessment rate could also increase due to downgrades in Carolina First Bank’s risk category which is impacted by changes in the regulatory rating by the FDIC and the capital ratios of the bank. While we currently do not pay dividends on our common stock, holders of our common stock may be unable to use the dividends-received deduction with respect to any distributions we may make on our common stock in the future. While we currently pay no dividends on our common stock, if we were to pay a dividend or other distribution on our common stock, distributions paid to corporate U.S. holders on our common stock may be eligible for the dividends received deduction if we have current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although we believe we have accumulated earnings and profits at December 31, 2009, we may not have sufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits during future taxable years for the distributions on our common stock to qualify as dividends for federal income tax purposes. If any distributions on our common stock with respect to any taxable year are not eligible for the dividends-received deduction because of insufficient current or accumulated earnings and profits, the amount fo r which you may be able to sell our common stock may decline. We may not pay dividends on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods are fully paid on our outstanding Series T Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. We are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on our Series T Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. Additionally, if we do not pay dividends on the shares of Series T Preferred Stock for six quarterly dividend periods or more, the authorized number of directors on our board will automatically increase by two, and the U.S. Treasury will have the right to elect two directors to our board. In first quarter 2010, we suspended dividend payments on our Series T Preferred Stock and all remaining outstanding equity and capital instruments. We may not be able to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock and the warrant sold to the U.S. Treasury. Until such time as we redeem our Series T Preferred Stock, we will remain subject to the respective terms and conditions set forth in the agreements we entered into with the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program. Among other things, prior to December 5, 2011, unless we have redeemed the Series T Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury or the U.S. Treasury has transferred the Series T Preferred Stock to a third party, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to (1) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on our common stock (other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.01 per share of common stock) or (2) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other equity or capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other circumstances specified in the related purchase agreement. It is unlikely that we will be able to redeem the Series T Preferred Stock until, among other things, we increase our capital and return to profitability. See “Risk Factors— We have incurred significant losses and will incur additional losses,” above. 14 Index Further, the continued existence of the Capital Purchase Program investment subjects us to increased regulatory and legislative oversight. See “Risk Factors — Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price,” below. Our business may be further adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since late 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. Over this period, the global markets were characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but also subsequently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders suffered significant losses and became reluctant to lend, even on a secu red basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008 and 2009, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing in the equity of banking organizations, but certain asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be constrained. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 20 08 and 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in the United States and worldwide will continue to be challenged for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and financial condition. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including central government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities. The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. 15 Index Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale. In addition to the Capital Purchase Program (in which we participated) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) announced in 2008, the U.S. government has taken steps that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. The U.S. Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) and the American Recovery and R einvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), also has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs. There can be no assurance as to the impact that these programs and measures will have on the financial markets, including the high levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, or on the U.S. banking and financial industries and the broader U.S. and global economies. The failure of these programs and measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. These programs and measures also subject participating financial institutions, like us, to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. In particular, ARRA made amendments to the executive compensation provisions of EESA, under which TARP was established. These amendments apply not only to future participants under TARP, but also apply retroactively to companies like us that are current TARP participants. In addition, new legislative proposals continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including with respect to compensation, interest rates and the impact of bankruptcy proceedings on consumer real property mortgages and otherwise. These, and any future legal requirements and implementing standards under TARP may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on TARP participants and on the financial services industry as a whole. Further, federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations and/or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance. Additionally, the evolving regulations concerning executive compensation may impose limitations on us that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and could be subjected to additional restrictions on our business and operations. TSFG and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision affecting, among other things, our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, consumers, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. Under federal and state law, our regulators have broad powers with respect to our company and subsidiaries, which entail risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include the risk that additional capital will be required by our regulators. In addition, our regulators may impose other directives relating to various aspects of our business, such as risk management, credit and lending policies and procedures, asset/liability managem ent, loan and securities portfolio composition, funding and liquidity and dividend policies if they determine that any of these aspects of our business pose undue risk to the institution and we fail to take or are unable to take sufficient action to mitigate such risks. Any such laws, requirements or directives, or the failure or inability to comply with them, could result in negative regulatory consequences, including becoming subject to supervisory action or to the imposition of restrictions on our business and operations. Such restrictions could adversely impact our financial condition, our access to the equity and capital markets, the way in which we operate our businesses and the value of our common stock. 16 Index Laws and regulations also exist that require financial institutions like us to take steps to prevent the use of our banking subsidiary to facilitate the flow of illegal or illicit money, to report large currency transactions, and to file suspicious activity reports. We are also required to develop and implement a comprehensive anti-money laundering compliance program. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. In addition, Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Changes to statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, or regulatory ratings (including changes in interpretation or implementation), could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit access to certain funding sources, limit the types of financial services, products, and rates we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Our credit ratings are reviewed periodically, and could be subject to further downgrade. Our credit ratings are currently below investment grade. A further downgrade to our, or our affiliates’, credit ratings could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our profitability, or could lead to a loss of deposits due to decreased depositor confidence. Rating agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, and level and quality of earnings. In addition, ratings agencies have themselves been subject to scrutiny arising from the financial crisis and there is no assurance that ratings agencies will not make or be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices or that such changes would not affect ratings of our securities or of securities in which we have an economic interest. Failure to raise additional capital, further credit quality deterioration and other factors relating to our business could cause us to have lower capital ratios, which could result in the further downgrade of our credit ratings. Our stock price can be volatile in response to a number of factors. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: variations in our quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Declining stock prices could create customer concern, which co uld weaken our competitive position and, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do and as a result may be perceived as stronger institutions. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern TSFG or Carolina First Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. We expect competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing fina ncial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, our ability to market our products and services may be adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Moreover, our current trading price, reported losses and other matters have, and will likely continue to, hurt our ability to retain and hire employees. 17 Index Significant litigation could have a material adverse effect on us. We face legal risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us may have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We rely on our systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect us. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulat ory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets, or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. From a corporate law perspective, the holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, as and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. Because TSFG is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and because it does not conduct revenue-generating operations at the holding company level, TSFG depends on the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries for its revenues. Current federal law prohibits, except under certain circumstances and with prior regulatory approval, an insured depository institution from paying dividends or making any other capital distribution if, after making the payment or distribution, the institution would be considered “under-capitalized,” as that term is defined in applicable regulations. In addition, South Carolina banking regulations re strict under certain circumstances the amount of dividends that the subsidiary bank, Carolina First Bank, can pay to TSFG. In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. Depending on the financial condition of Carolina First Bank, the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice if Carolina First Bank were to pay dividends. The Federal Reserve and other regulatory authorities have issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks and bank holding companies only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations. For examp le, if Carolina First Bank became “under-capitalized,” current law provides the federal banking agencies with broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems of insured depository institutions. Based on informal communications from federal banking regulators, currently none of TSFG or Carolina First Bank, or any of their respective subsidiaries (including, but not limited to, the real estate investment trust subsidiary) are permitted to pay dividends on capital securities. 18 Index In addition, if any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, the direct creditors of that subsidiary will have a prior claim on its assets. Our rights and the rights of our creditors will be subject to that prior claim, unless we are also a direct creditor of that subsidiary. Our historical financial information may not permit you to predict our cost of operations. In addition to the impact on our provision for credit losses and charge-offs, the current credit environment has adversely affected our noninterest expenses. We have recorded significant write-downs and losses on sales of foreclosed properties, write-downs and losses on sales of loans and impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill, all of which are reported in noninterest expense. In addition, increased regulatory assessments and loan collection expense have also impacted noninterest expense. The magnitude and volatility in these line items may make it hard for you to accurately predict our basic cost of operations, absent the impact of credit. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 