Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results and/or the market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a number of factors, including the following: Our business may be further adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since late 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing in the equity of banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in the United States and worldwide will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and financial condition. The downturn in the residential real estate market (and the related effects on certain commercial real estate loans to acquire, develop, and construct residential properties) has significantly affected our results of operations, and further deterioration could have further adverse effects on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay, and consequently our financial condition and results of operations. We make commercial, real estate and consumer loans predominantly in South Carolina, western North Carolina and larger markets in Florida. A large portion of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. In many cases, the real estate collateral has deteriorated in value during the past year. This deterioration has, to a large extent, been a result of the recent imbalance of supply and demand for residential real estate particularly in Florida and our coastal markets. If we are required to liquidate the collateral during this period of reduced real estate values, our profitability and financial condition could be further adversely affected. As the extent and duration of this downturn is not known, we must estimate, based on current portfolio knowledge and analysis, the amount of our probable losses when recording our allowance for loan losses. This estimate requires substantial judgment on the part of management which may or may not prove valid. Commercial real estate loans comprised 40.0% of total loans at December 31, 2008, compared to 40.7% and 43.0% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (See Table 1 and the section titled “Commercial 11 Real Estate Concentration” under “Balance Sheet Review--Loans” in Item 7 for additional information on loan portfolio concentrations.) Our loans are predominantly focused in three states and continued adverse economic conditions in those states, in particular, could have a further negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the concentration of loans in the same geographical region, adverse economic conditions in these areas have contributed to higher rates of loss and delinquency on our loans than if the loans had been more geographically diversified. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate, and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. A continued economic downturn and volatility in the financial markets could significantly affect the estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and could lead to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, investments, or other assets. Also, a key marketing strategy targets the needs of owner-operated businesses with credit needs of under $5 million. These owner-operated businesses represent a major sector of regional economies. If these regional economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition may be affected. Recent government actions in response to market conditions may affect us. It is not clear at this time what impact EESA, the CPP, the TLGP, the FSP, the Stimulus Bill, the HASP, or other liquidity and funding initiatives will have on us. There can also be no assurance as to the impact that the above measures will have on the financial markets, including the high levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, or on the U.S. banking and financial industries and the broader U.S. and global economies. The failure of these measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. TSFG and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, consumers, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Changes to statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, or regulatory ratings (including changes in interpretation or implementation), could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit access to certain funding sources, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Laws and regulations exist that require financial institutions like us to take steps to prevent the use of our banking subsidiary for facilitating the flow of illegal or illicit money, to report large currency transactions, and to file suspicious activity reports. We are also required to develop and implement a comprehensive anti-money laundering compliance program. In response to regulatory demands, we could be required to cease payment of common and/or preferred dividends, in which case access to capital equity markets could be impaired. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. Our earnings are exposed to risks associated with movements in market interest rates. Market interest rate movements could adversely impact earnings, depending on our interest rate risk mismatches at that time. In particular, rising interest rates would adversely impact earnings in the event that our liabilities reprice faster than assets, whereas falling interest rates would adversely impact earnings in the event our assets reprice faster than liabilities. If we have a “mismatch” between the duration of our assets and the duration of our liabilities, and interest rates move as described in the previous sentence, our net 12 interest income would be negatively affected. (See “Market Risk and Asset/Liability Management” under “Enterprise Risk Management” in Item 7 for additional information.) We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies and different estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease in capital and/or other material changes to our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, the effectiveness of derivatives and other hedging activities, the fair value of certain financial instruments (securities, derivatives, and privately held investments), income tax assets or liabilities (including deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowance), share-based compensation, and accounting for acquisitions, including the fair value determinations and the analysis of goodwill impairment. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in a decrease to net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our reports of financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented or outside parties may perpetrate a fraud, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We can incur losses due to internal or external acts intended to defraud, misappropriate assets, or circumvent applicable law or our system of internal controls. We regularly review and update our internal controls and procedures. However, any system of controls, no matter how well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. An interruption or breach in security with respect to our information systems, as well as information systems of our outsourced service providers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Inability to achieve customer deposit growth could adversely impact profitability and liquidity. Because of a traditional focus on commercial lending, our customer deposit funding has been low relative to peers, causing us to utilize wholesale funding to a greater degree than some other peers. Customer deposits typically provide cost and liquidity advantages versus wholesale funding – generally to a greater degree in a higher interest rate environment. Accordingly, any future inability to achieve customer deposit growth and diversify funding sources could adversely impact earnings and, in the event of limited access to attractive wholesale funding markets, could hamper our ability to support attractive lending opportunities. Our stock price can be volatile in response to a number of factors. These factors include: variations in our quarterly operating results; recommendations by securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business combinations; performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Declining stock prices could create customer concern, which could weaken our competitive position and, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The NASDAQ may not extend the temporary relief for stocks trading below $1 per share. In October 2008, the NASDAQ Stock Market temporarily suspended its listing requirement that requires companies to have a minimum bid price of $1 per share through April 20, 2009. NASDAQ rules classify a security as “deficient” if it has a closing bid price of less than $1 per share for thirty consecutive business days. Once deficient, issuers have an automatic 180-day period to regain compliance by having a closing bid price of at least $1 per share for ten consecutive business days, and can receive an additional 180 days if all other listing requirements are met. If we do not meet this standard and the NASDAQ Stock Market does not continue its suspension of this listing requirement, liquidity in our stock could be materially and adversely affected. Hurricanes and other natural disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing business. We operate and make loans in hurricane-prone areas. Hurricanes destroy collateral and the service 13 businesses that support the area, and may affect the demand for houses and services in hurricane-prone areas. Our results could be adversely affected if we suffered higher than expected losses on our loans due to weather events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 