Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks before investing in our common stock. These are not the only risks that we may face. If any of the events referred to below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information in this Form 10-K and in the documents we incorporate by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. While as a smaller reporting Company disclosure of risk factors is not required, the Company is voluntarily including such disclosures. 13 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry and Other Matters Covenants in our credit facilities may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. As a result of the refinancing on June 28, 2013, we currently have a $15 million revolving credit facility, expiring June 2016. Our new credit facility requires, among others, and any future credit facilities may also require, that we comply with specified financial covenants relating to fixed charge coverage, minimum consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and maximum capital expenditures, as more fully described in Note 6 to the financial statements herein. As part of our refinancing on June 28, 2013, we also consummated a $3.5 million subordinated debt loan, the agreement for which establishes similar financial covenants, one of which limits the amount the parent Company can spend on Brazilian operations to $200,000 over the three-year term of the loan. Our ability to satisfy these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet the requirements of these covenants. These restrictive covenants could affect our financial and operational flexibility or impede our ability to operate or expand our business, including a limitation on annual investments and advances we can make to foreign subsidiaries. Default under our credit facilities would allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. Our lenders have a security interest in substantially all of our assets to secure the debt under our current credit facilities, and it is likely that our future lenders will have security interests in our assets. If our lenders declare amounts outstanding under any credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against our assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or are unable to remediate a material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, and investors’ views of us could be harmed. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis involves substantial effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have documented and tested our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2014. In making this assessment, management used the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based upon an evaluation performed as of January 31, 2014 and throughout FY14, we have identified several material weaknesses surrounding our internal control over international financial reporting and review as follows: China In FY13 the Company determined that there were inadequate controls and procedures in place in China. The Company further determined in Q3 of FY14, partially as a result of the change in management with the International Controller departure in Q2, that the Company’s intended remediation was not adequate. Management devoted considerable time in Q3 and Q4 of FY14 to resolving the accounting issues, and management is confident the financial reporting is correct at January 31, 2014. Management intends to further remediate the internal controls in place in China and to make changes as appropriate during FY15, including changes in financial accounting management personnel. Since the material weakness was identified prior to January 31, 2014, action was taken by management such that it did not result in a misstatement for the year. Brazil Management determined in FY14 that we did not have adequate internal controls in place in Brazil which constituted a material weakness. The Company has operated without adequate cash resources in Brazil and our loan agreements in the USA precluded us from sending any more cash to Brazil. As a result, we were not able to invest funds in Brazil on internal controls until the operation could be returned to profitability. In FY14 we completely changed the senior management in Brazil and recruited and hired a new CEO specializing in turnaround situations who started in September 2013 and recruited a new CFO who started in February 2014. It was not possible to address the internal controls in Brazil until late in Q4 FY14 at which time the Company engaged an outside CPA firm in Brazil to review the internal controls and procedures. Their report was just rendered March 29, 2014. The conclusion of the report was that the design of the activity/process controls does not meet the minimum requirements needed for information security controls. In addition, the report indicated that the controls resulted in high exposure in the areas of purchase, accounting closing, sales, financial, production, payroll, and logistics. Since the material weakness was identified prior to January 31, 2014, action was taken by management such that it did not result in a misstatement for the year. The Company is reviewing this report and will remediate any areas needed as soon as practicable. 14 Failure to Identify Related Party Transaction The Company failed to identify all payments made to related parties during the year. During the year, it was discovered that the Weifang facility paid approximately $587,000 in fiscal 2014 and $435,000 in fiscal 2013 in payments to a company owned in part by managers of the Company’s main China subsidiary, for certain printing services, which management believes were at arms-length pricing. The appropriate disclosures were not made in the FY14 quarterly filings or in the FY13 financial filings. Since the material weakness was identified by management prior to preparation of the financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2014, it did not result in a misstatement in the 2014 Form 10-K. Failure of Entity Level Controls As a result of the multiple material weaknesses identified above regarding financial reporting in international locations, the Company concluded that it does not have sufficient internal controls in place to monitor the internal controls in remote locations. In addition, the Company had not performed a sufficient level of review of the financial information from the foreign subsidiaries to ensure that all general ledger accounts are reconciled and that estimates are properly stated. Since the material weakness was identified prior to January 31, 2014 and all accounts were properly reconciled and reviewed, it did not result in a misstatement for the year. While the Company believes it has taken the appropriate steps to initiate the remediation of the weaknesses, several of these steps will take time to complete and thus it was unable to complete by January 31, 2014 the remediation of the material weakness from FY13 and others identified in FY14. Since the Company qualifies as a smaller reporting company, an attestation report of management’s assessment of internal control by our independent auditors is not required. We may need additional funds, and if we are unable to obtain these funds, we may not be able to expand or operate our business as planned. Our operations require significant amounts of cash, and we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or by borrowing money, to fund acquisitions for the future growth and development of our business or to fund our operations and inventory, particularly in the event of a market downturn. A number of factors could affect our ability to access future debt or equity financing, including: ·Our financial condition, strength and credit rating; ·The financial markets’ confidence in our management team and financial reporting; ·General economic conditions and the conditions in the homeland security sector; and ·Capital markets conditions. Even if available, additional financing may be more costly than our current facility and may have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. Although management believes it currently has sufficient capital following the recent financing, if we do need additional capital in the future and are unsuccessful, it could reduce our net sales and materially adversely impact our earning capability and financial position. We incurred a significant loss in the fourth quarter of FY13 and for the full fiscal year in FY13 and for FY14, and there can be no assurance that such losses will not continue. For the fourth quarter of FY13 and for the full fiscal year, we incurred net losses of approximately $18.0 million and $26.3 million, respectively. Such losses primarily arose from (a) the write-down in Brazil of goodwill and other intangibles (b) the arbitration settlement in Brazil and (c) the termination of our supply agreement with DuPont de Nemours. More specifically, in the fourth quarter of FY13, we recorded an impairment charge of $10.0 million. FY13 also reflected a charge of $7.9 million in respect of the adverse arbitration judgment Brazil suffered during the year and a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $4.5 million. In addition, for FY13, we had an operating loss from continuing operations of $1.0 million, as compared to an operating profit from continuing operations of $1.7 million in FY12. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses from our Brazilian operations for at least the first quarter of FY15. In FY14 there was a loss from continuing operations for three quarters and the entire year, mainly resulting from the losses sustained in Brazil. Excluding Brazil and before Corporate, as disclosed in the Note 16 - Manufacturing Segment Data, the Company generated an operating profit in FY14. There can be no assurance that we will revert back to profitability. 15 We are required to make, over the next five years, substantial cash payments in respect of the settlement agreement. Substantial cash payments are required relating to the settlement agreement resulting from the arbitration award in Brazil, as described in Note 4 to the Financial Statements. As of January 31, 2014, the remaining liability associated with the settlement agreement is $5.0 million and is payable $250,000 a quarter over the next five years, with no interest. Default on this obligation will have serious negative consequences. We are subject to risk as a result of our international manufacturing operations. Because most of our products are manufactured at our facilities located in China, Brazil and Mexico, our operations are subject to risk inherent in doing business internationally. Such risks include the adverse effects on operations from corruption, war, international terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities, deprivation of contract and property rights and currency valuation changes. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic and political systems, and we expect this to continue. Although we believe that these reforms have had a positive effect on the economic development of China and have improved our ability to successfully operate our facilities in China, we cannot assure you that these reforms will continue or that the Chinese government will not take actions that impair our operations or assets in China. In addition, periods of international unrest may impede our ability to manufacture goods in other countries, such as Mexico presently, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The termination of our supply agreement with DuPont adversely affected our FY13 results of operations. By notice given to us in July 2011, E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company (“DuPont”) terminated, effective September 10, 2011, the agreement by virtue of which DuPont supplied to us garments made from their proprietary Tyvek and Tychem fabrics. Products containing these fabrics constituted 50% and 59% of our North American revenues in FY12 and FY11, respectively. As a consequence, our results of operations in FY13 were adversely affected. Since 2005, we have been introducing alternative fabrics to Tyvek and Tychem. These fabrics are available to us from other textile mills, and we believe that they do everything and, in some instances, more than Tyvek and Tychem materials do in the way of protection and comfort. Our strategy has been to switch customers out of Tyvek and Tychem fabrics into our existing alternative products, which offer better margins than the DuPont-related product lines. Management believes as of FY14 the Company has fully recovered its gross margins in the US resulting from the loss of these products. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Most of our assembly arrangements with our foreign-based subsidiaries or third-party suppliers require payment to be made in US dollars or Euros. Any decrease in the value of the US dollar or the Euro in relation to foreign currencies could increase the cost of the services provided to us upon contract expirations or supply renegotiations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase product prices to offset any such cost increases, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks as a result of our sales in foreign countries. Our net sales to customers in South America, Canada, Asia and EEC were US $42.0 million in FY14. Our sales in these countries are usually denominated in the local currency. If the value of the US dollar increases relative to these local currencies, and we are unable to raise our prices proportionally, then our profit margins could decrease because of the exchange rate change. Although our labor and some fabric and component costs in China are denominated in the Chinese Yuan, this currency has historically been largely pegged to the US dollar, which has minimized our foreign currency exchange rate risk in China. Recently, however, the Chinese Yuan has been allowed to float against the US dollar and, therefore, we may be exposed to additional foreign currency exchange rate risk. We do not hedge the Brazilian Real as it costs approximately 9% a year of the amount hedged , and management has deemed this not to be cost effective. This risk will also increase in the event that we continue to increase our sales in other foreign countries, other than Brazil and there we have a plan to grow our sales. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk.” We are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our purchases and sales in other countries. To manage the volatility relating to foreign currency exchange rates, we seek to limit, to the extent possible, our non-US dollar denominated purchases and sales. 16 In connection with our operations in China, we purchase a significant amount of products from outside of the United States. However, our purchases in China are primarily made in Chinese Yuan, the value of which had been largely pegged to the US dollar for the last decade. However, the Chinese Yuan has been decoupled from the US dollar and allowed to float by the Chinese government and, therefore, we have been exposed to additional foreign exchange rate risk on our Chinese raw material and component purchases. Our primary risk from foreign currency exchange rate changes is presently related to non-US dollar denominated sales in Brazil, Canada and Europe and, to a smaller extent, in other South American countries and dollar-denominated payables in Brazil. Our sales to customers in Brazil are denominated in Brazilian Reals, in Canada in Canadian dollars and in Europe in Euros and British pounds. If the value of the US dollar increases relative to the Canadian dollar, the Real, the Pound or the Euro, then our net sales could decrease as our products would be more expensive to these international customers because of changes in rate of exchange. The largest supplier of raw materials to Brazil is an American company, and these payables are denominated in US dollars. If the Brazilian Real weakened against the US dollar, it would make our costs higher and trigger a loss on foreign exchange on the payables. Our sales from China are denominated in the Chinese Yuan, US dollar and Euros. We did experience some losses between the Chinese Yuan, the Euro and US dollars in FY12, but we have since stepped up our hedging program to include this risk. We manage the foreign currency risk through the use of rolling 90-day forward contracts against the Canadian dollar and Euros and through longer term cash flow hedges in China against the Euro. We do not hedge other currencies at this time. As non-US dollar denominated international purchases and sales grow, exposure to volatility in exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. The only significant unhedged foreign exchange exposure we have is the Brazilian Real. Other unhedged currency exposure is not significant. Our results of operations may vary widely from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results of operations have varied and are expected to continue to vary in the future. These fluctuations may be caused by many factors, including: ·The size and timing of individual sales in Brazil; ·Currency volatility; ·Our expansion of international operations; ·Competitive pricing pressures; ·Seasonal buying patterns resulting from the cyclical nature of the business of some of our customers; ·Changes in the mix of products and services sold; ·The timing of introductions and enhancements of products by us or our competitors; ·Market acceptance of new products; ·Technological changes in fabrics or production equipment used to make our products; ·Changes in the mix of domestic and international sales; pPersonnel changes; and ·General industry and economic conditions. These variations could negatively impact our stock price. Rapid technological change could negatively affect sales of our products and our performance. The rapid development of fabric technology continually affects our apparel applications and may directly impact the performance of our products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully maintain or improve the effectiveness of our existing products, nor can we assure you that we will successfully identify new opportunities or continue to have the needed financial resources to develop new fabric or apparel manufacturing techniques in a timely or cost-effective manner. In addition, products manufactured by others may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. If any of these events occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. 17 Because we do not have long-term commitments from many of our customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates could negatively impact our inventory levels and net sales. Our sales are generally made on the basis of individual purchase orders, which may later be modified or canceled by the customer, rather than long-term commitments. We have historically been required to place firm orders for fabrics and components with our suppliers prior to receiving an order for our products, based on our forecasts of customer demands. Our sales process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates, causing excess inventory to accrue or a lack of manufacturing capacity when needed. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would negatively impact our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would lose sales opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to delivery dates required by our customers because of the lead time needed for us to obtain required materials or to send fabrics to our assembly facilities in China, Brazil and Mexico. We must recruit and retain skilled employees, including our senior management, to succeed in our business. Our operations are substantially dependent upon key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel, including Christopher J. Ryan, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, Gary Pokrassa, our Chief Financial Officer, and Stephen Bachelder, our Chief Operating Officer. The loss of services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any future expansion of our business will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, marketing, customer service and manufacturing personnel, and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for specific fabrics, and we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers and manufacturers on terms that are as favorable, or at all, if our supplies are interrupted. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon close relationships with vendors and our ability to purchase raw materials at competitive prices. The loss of key vendor support could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not have multiyear supply contracts with any of our finished goods or fabric suppliers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire raw materials and components at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. Other than our previous purchases of Tyvek® and TyChem® from DuPont, and current purchases of Kevlar® and Nomex® fabrics, all of which we have bought either directly or indirectly from DuPont since 1986, we generally use standard fabrics and components in our products. We rely on nonaffiliated suppliers and manufacturers for the supply of these fabrics and components that are incorporated in our products. If such suppliers or manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or quality assurance difficulties, or if there is a disruption in our relationships, we will be required to locate alternative sources of supply. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate such alternative sources. In addition, we do not have any long-term contracts with any of our suppliers for any of these components. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components, if and as required in the future, may result in: ·Interruptions and delays in manufacturing and resulting cancellations of orders for our products; ·Increases in fabrics or component prices that we may not be able to pass on to our customers; and ·Our holding more inventory than normal because we cannot finish assembling our products until we have all of the components. We deal in countries where corruption is an obstacle. We must comply with American laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Sarbanes-Oxley and also with recently passed anticorruption legislation in the U.K. Some of our competitors and customers in foreign jurisdictions may not adhere to such legislation. As a result, we believe that we lose sales orders due to our strict adherence to such regulations. 18 We face competition from other companies, a number of which have substantially greater resources than we do. Three of our competitors, DuPont, Honeywell and Kimberly Clark, have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. In addition, we believe that the barriers to entry in the disposable and reusable garments and gloves markets are relatively low. We cannot assure you that our present competitors or competitors that choose to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures. Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. For further discussion of the competition we face in our business, see “Business-Competition.” Some of our sales are to foreign buyers, which exposes us to additional risks. We derived approximately 49% of our net sales from customers located in foreign countries in FY14. We intend to seek to increase the amount of foreign sales we make in the future. The additional risks of foreign sales include: · Potential adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · Higher credit risks; · Restrictive trade policies of foreign governments; · Currency hyperinflation and weak banking institutions; · Changing economic conditions in local markets; · Political and economic instability in foreign markets; and · Changes in leadership of foreign governments. Some or all of these risks may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. A significant reduction in government funding for preparations for terrorist incidents could adversely affect our net sales. As a general matter, a significant portion of our sales growth to our distributors is dependent upon resale by those distributors to customers that are funded in large part by federal, state and local government funding. Specifically, depending on the year, approximately 20% of our high-end chemical suit sales are dependent on government funding. Congress passed the 2001 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Both of these Acts provide for funding to fire and police departments and medical and emergency personnel to respond to terrorist incidents. Appropriations for these Acts by the federal government could be reduced or eliminated altogether. Any such reduction or elimination of federal funding, or any reductions in state or local funding, could cause sales of our products purchased by fire and police departments and medical and emergency personnel to decline. We may be subject to product liability claims, and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these claims. We manufacture products used for protection from hazardous or potentially lethal substances, such as chemical and biological toxins, fire, viruses and bacteria. The products that we manufacture are typically used in applications and situations that involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use our products for their intended purposes, failure to use our products properly or the malfunction of our products could result in serious bodily injury to or death of the user. In such cases, we may be subject to product liability claims arising from the design, manufacture or sale of our products. If these claims are decided against us, and we are found to be liable, we may be required to pay substantial damages, and our insurance costs may increase significantly as a result. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that we will be able to obtain it at a reasonable cost. Any material uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Our US operations, including our manufacturing facilities, are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. Any violation of any of those laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial liability to the Environmental Protection Agency, the state environmental agencies in any affected state or to any individuals affected by any such violation. Any such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Our directors and executive officers have the ability to exert significant influence on our Company and on matters subject to a vote of our stockholders. As of January 31, 2014, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned or could vote approximately 10.49% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of their ownership of common stock and their positions in our Company, our directors and executive officers are able to exert significant influence on our Company and on matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. In particular, as of January 31, 2014, Christopher J. Ryan, our chief executive officer, president and secretary and a director, beneficially owned or votes approximately 8.95% of our common stock. The ownership interests of our directors and executive officers, including Mr. Ryan, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company that may be favored by our stockholders generally. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult. Our restated certificate of incorporation contains classified board provisions, authorized preferred stock that could be utilized to implement various “poison pill” defenses and a stockholder authorized, but as yet unused, Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”), all of which may have the effect of discouraging a takeover of Lakeland, which is not approved by our board of directors. Further, we are subject to the antitakeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner. Acquisitions could be unsuccessful. In the future, subject to capital constraints, we may seek to acquire selected safety products lines or safety-related businesses which will complement our existing products. Our ability to acquire these businesses is dependent upon many factors, including our management’s relationship with the owners of these businesses, many of which are small and closely held by individual stockholders. In addition, we will be competing for acquisition and expansion opportunities with other companies, many of which have greater name recognition, marketing support and financial resources than us, which may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, pursue or acquire any targeted business and, if acquired, there can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired business into our Company without substantial costs, delays and other operational or financial problems. 20 If we proceed with additional acquisitions for cash, we may use a substantial portion of our available line of credit (if available) in order to consummate any such acquisition. We may also seek to finance any such acquisition through debt or equity financings, and there can be no assurance that such financings will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If consideration for an acquisition consists of equity securities, our stockholders could be diluted. If we borrow funds in order to finance an acquisition, we may not be able to obtain such funds on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, such indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business as we currently intend because of restrictions placed on us under the terms of the indebtedness and because we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on the debt instead of to our operations, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks in addition to those mentioned above, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies, potential exposure to unknown liabilities, adverse effects on our reported operating results and the amortization or write-down of acquired intangible assets. We cannot assure you that any acquisition by us will or will not occur, that if an acquisition does occur that it will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or that any such acquisition will be successful in enhancing our business. To the extent that we are unable to manage growth efficiently and effectively or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (“IT”) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results, announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors and other events or factors. For example, a shortfall in net sales or net income, or an increase in losses, from levels expected by securities analysts, could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many micro and small capitalization companies and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Future sales or issuance of our common stock may cause the prevailing market price of our shares to decrease. In connection with our junior financing transaction, we issued a warrant and a note in a private placement transaction conducted pursuant to Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act. If the holder of the warrant and note chooses to exercise its purchase rights under the warrant and/or elects to be paid interest on the note in shares of common stock and, in either such case, decides to sell its shares in the public market under Rule 144 or pursuant to an effective registration statement, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline. Our common stock is an equity interest and therefore subordinated to our indebtedness. Payments of the principal and interest under the notes issued under the loan agreements entered into in connection with our senior and junior financings are secured by first and second priority liens on, and security interests in, substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ present and after-acquired assets. In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, our common stock would rank below all debt claims against us. As a result, holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up until after all of our obligations to our debt holders have been satisfied. 21 The securities we issued or may be required to issue in the future in connection with our subordinated debt financing may affect the value of our common stock and dilute the holdings of our then existing stockholders. We may be required to issue up to an aggregate of 1,068,506 shares of our common stock upon the exercise of the warrant, including as a price-protection anti-dilution adjustment, and as interest shares on the note, which could depress our stock price and further dilute the holdings of our then existing stockholders. We are precluded from paying and do not anticipate paying any dividends to our common stockholders in the near future. We are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends to our common stockholders without the prior consent of our senior and junior lenders. Further, we have not paid dividends on our common stock since August 2006 and we do not anticipate, if permitted, paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 