Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks before investing in our common stock. These are not the only risks that we may face. If any of the events referred to below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information in this Form 10-K and in the documents we incorporate by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We have suffered losses for each of the last two quarters of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012 and for the full fiscal year. For the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012 and for the full fiscal year, we incurred net losses of $576,000, $1,548,000 and $377,000, respectively. Such losses primarily arose from the consequences of the termination or our Tyvek and Tychem supply agreement with DuPont and the write-down from the recent decision to discontinue our India glove manufacturing facility. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more detail on these matters. There can be no assurance that we will revert back to profitability. The termination of our supply agreement with DuPont adversely affected our recent results of operations and will continue to do so for at least the immediate future. By notice given to us in July 2011, E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company (“DuPont”) terminated, effective September 10, 2011, the agreement by virtue of which DuPont supplied to us garments made from their proprietary Tyvek and Tychem fabrics. Products containing these fabrics constituted 59.2%, 50.0% and 40.0% of our revenues in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a consequence, our results of operations for the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal 2012 were adversely affected. Since 2005, we have been introducing alternative fabrics to Tyvek and Tychem. These fabrics are available to us from other textile mills and we believe that they do everything and, in some instances more, than Tyvek and Tychem materials do in the way of protection and comfort. Our strategy is to switch customers out of Tyvek and Tychem fabrics into our existing alternative products, which alternative products offer better margins that the DuPont-related product lines. We do not expect to know the full extent of the impact of our strategy until at least summer 2012. The impact will be determined by how many customers switch over to our proprietary product lines from the DuPont-related product lines and when the switching will occur. Accordingly, we expect that our results of operations in the first half of fiscal 2013 to be adversely affected by this situation and there is no assurance that the adverse effect will not extend to a significantly longer period of time or that it will not be permanent. Current litigation may result in a judgment against the Company. Current litigation and arbitration in Brazil, with sellers of our Brazilian subsidiary, could result in a judgment against the Company in amounts that are not completely determinable, but could be greater than $10.3 million. (See Note 4 to the financial statements.) Further cash flow contingencies relating to the VAT tax case in Brazil are described in Note 10 to the financial statements. Our results of operations may vary widely from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results of operations have varied and are expected to continue to vary in the future. These fluctuations may be caused by many factors, including: ·Currency volatility; ·Our expansion of international operations; ·Competitive pricing pressures; ·Seasonal buying patterns resulting from the cyclical nature of the business of some of our customers; ·The size and timing of individual sales; ·Changes in the mix of products and services sold; ·The timing of introductions and enhancements of products by us or our competitors; ·Market acceptance of new products; ·Technological changes in fabrics or production equipment used to make our products; ·Changes in the mix of domestic and international sales; ·Personnel changes; and ·General industry and economic conditions. 16 These variations could negatively impact our stock price. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Most of our assembly arrangements with our foreign-based subsidiaries or third-party suppliers require payment to be made in U.S. dollars. These payments aggregated $14.5 million in FY12. Any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies could increase the cost of the services provided to us upon contract expirations or supply renegotiations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase product prices to offset any such cost increases, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks as a result of our sales in foreign countries. Our net sales to customers in South America, Canada, Asia and EEC were $45.8 million USD, in FY12. Our sales in these countries are usually denominated in the local currency. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to these local currencies, and we are unable to raise our prices proportionally, then our profit margins could decrease because of the exchange rate change. Although our labor, some fabric and component costs in China are denominated in the Chinese Yuan, this currency has historically been largely pegged to the U.S. dollar, which has minimized our foreign currency exchange rate risk in China. Recently, however, the Chinese Yuan has been allowed to float against the U.S. dollar and, therefore, we may be exposed to additional foreign currency exchange rate risk. We do not hedge the Brazilian Real as it costs approximately 9% a year to do so and management has deemed this not to be cost effective. This risk will also increase as we continue to increase our sales in other foreign countries. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk-Foreign Currency Risk.” Acquisitions or future expansion could be unsuccessful. We acquired Mifflin Valley, Inc., a Pennsylvania company, on August 1, 2005 and Qualytextil, S.A. in May 2008, which currently market high visibility clothing and fire protective clothing. These two new lines should accelerate our growth in the personal protective equipment market. These acquisitions involve various risks, including: difficulties in integrating these companies’ operations, technologies and products; the risk of diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business: potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development: risks of entering markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions: initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains; and insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with these acquisitions. In the future, we may seek to acquire additional selected safety products lines or safety-related businesses which will complement our existing products. Our ability to acquire these businesses is dependent upon many factors, including our management’s relationship with the owners of these businesses, many of which are small and closely held by individual stockholders. In addition, we will be competing for acquisition and expansion opportunities with other companies, many of which have greater name recognition, marketing support and financial resources than us, which may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, pursue or acquire any targeted business and, if acquired, there can be no assurance that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired business into our company without substantial costs, delays and other operational or financial problems. If we proceed with additional acquisitions for cash, we may use a substantial portion of our available line of credit in order to consummate any such acquisition. We may also seek to finance any such acquisition through debt or equity financings, and there can be no assurance that such financings will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If consideration for an acquisition consists of equity securities, our stockholders could be diluted. If we borrow funds in order to finance an acquisition, we may not be able to obtain such funds on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, such indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business as we currently intend because of restrictions placed on us under the terms of the indebtedness and because we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on the debt instead of to our operations, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks in addition to those mentioned above, including the diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies, potential exposure to unknown liabilities, adverse effects on our reported operating results and the amortization or write down of acquired intangible assets. We cannot assure you that any acquisition by us will or will not occur, that if an acquisition does occur that it will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or that any such acquisition will be successful in enhancing our business. 17 We are subject to risk as a result of our international manufacturing operations. Because most of our products are manufactured at our facilities located in China, Brazil and Mexico, our operations are subject to risk inherent in doing business internationally. Such risks include the adverse effects on operations from war, international terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract and property rights. In particular, since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic and political systems, and we expect this to continue. Although we believe that these reforms have had a positive effect on the economic development of China and have improved our ability to successfully operate our facilities in China, we cannot assure you that these reforms will continue or that the Chinese government will not take actions that impair our operations or assets in China. In addition, periods of international unrest may impede our ability to manufacture goods in other countries, such as Mexico presently, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Rapid technological change could negatively affect sales of our products and our performance. The rapid development of fabric technology continually affects our apparel applications and may directly impact the performance of our products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully maintain or improve the effectiveness of our existing products, nor can we assure you that we will successfully identify new opportunities or continue to have the needed financial resources to develop new fabric or apparel manufacturing techniques in a timely or cost-effective manner. In addition, products manufactured by others may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. If any of these events occur, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Because we do not have long-term commitments from many of our customers, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates could negatively impact our inventory levels and net sales. Our sales are generally made on the basis of individual purchase orders, which may later be modified or canceled by the customer, rather than long-term commitments. We have historically been required to place firm orders for fabrics and components with our suppliers prior to receiving an order for our products, based on our forecasts of customer demands. Our sales process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates, causing excess inventory to accrue or a lack of manufacturing capacity when needed. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect or at all. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would negatively impact our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would lose sales opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to delivery dates required by our customers because of the lead time needed for us to obtain required materials or to send fabrics to our assembly facilities in China, Brazil and Mexico. If we are unable to manage our expansion, our business could be adversely affected. Our number of manufacturing and other facilities and number of employees have expanded substantially in recent years, especially in foreign jurisdictions. To manage our growth properly, we have been and will be required to expend significant management and financial resources. There can be no assurance that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. There can also be no assurance that our management will be able to manage our expansion and operate a larger organization efficiently or profitably. To the extent that we are unable to manage growth efficiently and effectively or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 18 We must recruit and retain skilled employees, including our senior management, to succeed in our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel, including Christopher J. Ryan, our chief executive officer, president and secretary, and Gary Pokrassa, our chief financial officer. The loss of services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any future expansion of our business will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, marketing, customer service and manufacturing personnel, and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for specific fabrics and we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers and manufacturers on terms that are as favorable, or at all, if our supplies are interrupted. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon close relationships with vendors and our ability to purchase raw materials at competitive prices. The loss of key vendor support could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not have multiyear supply contracts with any of our other finished goods or fabric suppliers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire raw materials and components at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. In FY11, we purchased approximately 32.3% of the dollar value of our raw materials from DuPont, and Tyvek® constituted approximately 22.0% of our cost of goods sold. Between 2006-2008, there were shortages in DuPont Nomex fabrics due to substantial military demand for the fabric in Iraq and Afghanistan. As previously indicated, our supply agreement with DuPont in respect of Tyvek® and Tychem® was terminated in fiscal 2012. This reduced allocation limited our ability to meet demand for Nomex® products during those years. Also, there can be no assurance that an adequate supply of fabrics in general will be available in the future. Any shortage could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products and, thus, reduce our net sales. Other than our previous purchases of Tyvek® and TyChem® from DuPont, and current purchases of Kevlar® and Nomex® fabrics, all of which we have bought either directly or indirectly from DuPont since 1986, we generally use standard fabrics and components in our products. We rely on nonaffiliated suppliers and manufacturers for the supply of these fabrics and components that are incorporated in our products. If such suppliers or manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or quality assurance difficulties, or if there is a disruption in our relationships, we will be required to locate alternative sources of supply. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate such alternative sources. In addition, we do not have any long-term contracts with any of our suppliers for any of these components. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components, if and as required in the future, may result in: ·Interruptions and delays in manufacturing and resulting cancellations of orders for our products; ·Increases in fabrics or component prices that we may not be able to pass on to our customers; and ·Our holding more inventory than normal because we cannot finish assembling our products until we have all of the components We deal in countries where corruption is an obstacle. We must comply with American laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and Sarbanes-Oxley, and also with recently passed anti-corruption legislation in the UK. Some of our competitors and customers in foreign jurisdictions view bribery as a normal part of business. As a result, we believe that we lose sales orders by not engaging in such practices. We face competition from other companies, three of which have substantially greater resources than we do. Three of our competitors, DuPont, Honeywell and Kimberly Clark, have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources than we do. In addition, we believe that the barriers to entry in the disposable and reusable garments and gloves markets are relatively low. We cannot assure you that our present competitors or competitors that choose to enter the marketplace in the future will not exert significant competitive pressures. Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. For further discussion of the competition we face in our business, see “Business-Competition.” Some of our sales are to foreign buyers, which exposes us to additional risks. We derived approximately 47.5% of our net sales from customers located in foreign countries in FY12. We intend to increase the amount of foreign sales we make in the future. The additional risks of foreign sales include: ·Potential adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 19 ·Higher credit risks; ·Restrictive trade policies of foreign governments; ·Currency hyperinflation and weak banking institutions; ·Changing economic conditions in local markets; ·Political and economic instability in foreign markets; and ·Changes in leadership of foreign governments. Some or all of these risks may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Covenants in our credit facilities may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. We currently have one credit facility: $23.5 million revolving credit facility which commenced January 2010, of which we had $11.5 million of borrowings outstanding as of January 31, 2012, expiring June 2014. Our current credit facility requires, and any future credit facilities may also require, that we comply with specified financial covenants relating to interest coverage, debt coverage, minimum consolidated net worth and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our ability to satisfy these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet the requirements of these covenants. These restrictive covenants could affect our financial and operational flexibility or impede our ability to operate or expand our business. Default under our credit facilities would allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. Our lenders have a security interest in substantially all of our assets to secure the debt under our current credit facilities, and it is likely that our future lenders will have security interests in our assets. If our lenders declare amounts outstanding under any credit facility to be due, the lenders could proceed against our assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In April 2012, as a result of the recent losses which caused the Company to be in breach several covenants, TD Bank, N.A. amended several features described more fully in Note 6 to the financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Based on the amended features, the Company was no longer in breach and had approximately $1.7 million available at January 31, 2012. We may need additional funds, and if we are unable to obtain these funds, we may not be able to expand or operate our business as planned. Our operations require significant amounts of cash, and we may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or by borrowing money, to fund acquisitions for the future growth and development of our business or to fund our operations and inventory, particularly in the event of a market downturn. Although we have the ability until June 2014 to borrow additional sums under our $23.5 million revolving credit facility, this facility contains a borrowing base provision and financial covenants that may limit the amount we can borrow thereunder or from other sources as amended in April 2012 (see Note 6 to financial statements included in this Form 10-K). We may not be able to replace or renew this credit facility upon its expiration on terms that are as favorable to us or at all. In addition, a number of factors could affect our ability to access debt or equity financing, including; ·Our financial condition, strength and credit rating; ·The financial markets’ confidence in our management team and financial reporting; ·General economic conditions and the conditions in the homeland security sector; and ·Capital markets conditions. Even if available, additional financing could be costly or have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could reduce our net sales and adversely impact our earning capability and financial position, and we may not be able to expand or operate our business as planned. 20 A significant reduction in government funding for preparations for terrorist incidents could adversely affect our net sales. As a general matter, a significant portion of our sales growth to our distributors is dependent upon resale by those distributors to customers that are funded in large part by federal, state and local government funding. Specifically, depending on the year, approximately 20% of our high-end chemical suit sales are dependent on government funding. Congress passed the 2001 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program and the Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Both of these Acts provide for funding to fire and police departments and medical and emergency personnel to respond to terrorist incidents. Appropriations for these Acts by the federal government could be reduced or eliminated altogether. Any such reduction or elimination of federal funding, or any reductions in state or local funding, could cause sales of our products purchased by fire and police departments and medical and emergency personnel to decline. We may be subject to product liability claims, and insurance coverage could be inadequate or unavailable to cover these claims. We manufacture products used for protection from hazardous or potentially lethal substances, such as chemical and biological toxins, fire, viruses and bacteria. The products that we manufacture are typically used in applications and situations that involve high levels of risk of personal injury. Failure to use our products for their intended purposes, failure to use our products properly or the malfunction of our products could result in serious bodily injury to or death of the user. In such cases, we may be subject to product liability claims arising from the design, manufacture or sale of our products. If these claims are decided against us, and we are found to be liable, we may be required to pay substantial damages, and our insurance costs may increase significantly as a result. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, that we will be able to obtain it at a reasonable cost. Any material uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Our U.S. operations, including our manufacturing facilities, are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. Any violation of any of those laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial liability to the Environmental Protection Agency, the state environmental agencies in any affected state or to any individuals affected by any such violation. Any such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variation in our operating results, announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors and other events or factors. For example, a shortfall in net sales or net income, or an increase in losses, from levels expected by securities analysts, could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the market price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many micro and small capitalization companies and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and negatively impact our results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market have greatly increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices for public companies, including our company. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, these laws, rules and regulations have required a greatly increased amount of resources and management attention. In the future, this may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from sales-generating and other operating activities to compliance activities, which would negatively impact our results of operations. 21 Our directors and executive officers have the ability to exert significant influence on our Company and on matters subject to a vote of our stockholders. As of January 31, 2012, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 10.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of their ownership of common stock and their positions in our Company, our directors and executive officers are able to exert significant influence on our Company and on matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. In particular, as of January 31, 2012, Christopher J. Ryan, our chief executive officer, president and secretary and a director, beneficially owned or votes approximately 8.6% of our common stock. The ownership interests of our directors and executive officers, including Mr. Ryan, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our Company that may be favored by our stockholders generally. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult. Our restated certificate of incorporation contains classified board provisions, authorized preferred stock that could be utilized to implement various “poison pill” defenses and a stockholder authorized, but as yet unused, Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP), all of which may have the effect of discouraging a takeover of Lakeland, which is not approved by our board of directors. Further, we are subject to the antitakeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls or are unable to remediate a material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, and investors’ views of us could be harmed. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis involves substantial effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have documented and tested our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based upon an evaluation performed as of January 31, 2012, and throughout FY12, we have not identified any material weaknesses in our internal controls. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats. While we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 