Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. 8 Table of contents We are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as the automotive industry, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may also adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers. In addition, we cannot predict the effects on the economy or consumer confidence of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to operate at an acceptable profit. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · we compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do; · some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain significant growth in our business; · many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected; · many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors; · the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size and with whom we may have difficulty competing; · advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments; · competition from Internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates; and · economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. 9 Table of contents We are highly dependent on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For 2010, our top five customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 52% of our revenue, and our largest customer, General Motors Corporation, accounted for approximately 34% of our revenue. We also provide transportation services to other manufacturers who are suppliers for automobile manufacturers. As a result, the concentration of our business within the automobile industry is greater than the concentration in a single customer. Approximately 40% of our revenues for 2010 were derived from transportation services provided to the automobile industry. Generally, we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, and we cannot assure that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. The Company is self insured for health and workers compensation insurance coverage up to certain limits. If medical costs continue to increase, or if the severity or number of claims increase, and if we are unable to offset the resulting increases in expenses with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the price and availability of diesel fuel. Diesel fuel represents a significant operating expense for the Company and we do not currently hedge against the risk of diesel fuel price increases. An increase in diesel fuel prices or diesel fuel taxes, or any change in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results to the extent we are unable to recoup such increases from customers in the form of increased freight rates or through fuel surcharges. Historically, we have been able to offset, to a certain extent, diesel fuel price increases through fuel surcharges to our customers but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. We continuously monitor the components of our pricing, including base freight rates and fuel surcharges, and address individual account profitability issues with our customers when necessary. While we have historically been able to adjust our pricing to help offset changes to the cost of diesel fuel, through changes to base rates and/or fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. Integrating businesses we acquire may involve unanticipated delays, costs or other operational or financial problems. Successful integration of the businesses we acquire depends on a number of factors, including our ability to transition acquired companies to our management information systems. In integrating businesses we acquire, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability or realize sufficient revenues to justify our investment. We also face the risk that an unexpected problem at one of the companies we acquire will require substantial time and attention from senior management, diverting management’s attention from other aspects of our business. We cannot be certain that our management and operational controls will be able to support us as we grow. 10 Table of contents Difficulty in attracting drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. Periodically, the transportation industry experiences difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, resulting in intense competition for drivers. We have from time to time experienced under-utilization and increased expenses due to a shortage of qualified drivers. If we are unable to attract drivers when needed or contract with independent contractors when needed, we could be required to further adjust our driver compensation packages or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are highly dependent upon the services of our key employees and executive officers. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. We cannot assure that we will be able to do so. If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase and our ability to compete would be impaired. None of our employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, we can offer no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future, particularly if legislation is passed that facilitates unionization. Disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If cash from operations are not sufficient, we may be required to rely on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during recent years, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability of banks to meet their funding commitments. A bank may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our liquidity and profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms. The trucking industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into unfavorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. 11 Table of contents Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at two of our facilities. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In addition, as global warming issues become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments as well as some of our customers, are beginning to respond to these issues. This increased focus on sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us as we may incur additional costs or be required to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations or customer requirements. Revenues could decrease if we are unable to meet regulatory or customer sustainability requirements. These additional costs, changes in operations, or loss of revenues could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours in service, and ergonomics. Compliance with such regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our operating expenses. The EPA adopted new emission control regulations, which required progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2010. In part to offset the costs of compliance with the new EPA engine design requirements, some manufacturers have increased new equipment prices and eliminated or sharply reduced the price of repurchase or trade-in commitments. If new equipment prices continue to increase, or if the price of repurchase commitments by equipment manufacturers were to decrease more than anticipated, we may be required to increase our depreciation and financing costs and/or retain some of our equipment longer, which may result in an increase in maintenance expenses. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increases in expenses with rate increases or cost savings, our results of operations would be adversely affected. If our fuel or maintenance expenses were to increase as a result of our use of the new, EPA-compliant engines, and we are unable to offset such increases with fuel surcharges or higher freight rates, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Further, our business and operations could be adversely impacted if we experience problems with the reliability of the new engines. Although we have not experienced any significant reliability issues with these engines to date, the expenses associated with the trucks containing these engines have been slightly elevated, primarily as a result of lower fuel efficiency and higher depreciation. 12 Table of contents During 2010, the FMCSA implemented its “Compliance, Safety, Accountability” program (“CSA”), formerly known as “Comprehensive Safety Analysis 2010” or “CSA 2010”. CSA is a new enforcement and compliance initiative that provides for driver standards in addition to the carrier standards previously in place. Under CSA, the methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating will be expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier's drivers. As a result of these new regulations, including the expanded methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating, there may be an adverse effect on our DOT safety rating. We currently have a satisfactory DOT rating, which is the highest available rating. A conditional or unsatisfactory DOT safety rating could adversely affect our business because some of our customer contracts may require a satisfactory DOT safety rating, and a conditional or unsatisfactory rating could negatively impact or restrict our operations. During 2010, the FMCSA also proposed changes to the current HOS rules which, if become final as proposed, could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. The proposed changes include a shortening of allowable daily driving time from 11 hours to 10 hours and a requirement that drivers take two nights of rest during the 34-hour restart provision. Both of these provisions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s productivity and could add complexity to load scheduling. During January 2011, the FMCSA issued a proposed rule that would require interstate commercial trucks to install electronic on-board recorders (“EOBRs”) to monitor compliance with HOS regulations. Under this proposal, all motor carriers currently required to maintain records of duty status for HOS record keeping would be required to use EOBRs to monitor their drivers' compliance with HOS requirements. Motor carriers would be given three years after the effective date of the final rule to comply with these requirements. The rule also proposes that for commercial motor vehicles manufactured on and after June 4, 2012, motor carriers must install and use an electronic device that meets the requirements of EOBRs and HOS rules. Management is currently evaluating the impact of any additional costs or operational changes necessary with regard to any EOBR device requirements. We may incur additional operating expenses or liabilities as a result of potential future requirements to address climate change issues. Regulations or legislation related to climate change that potentially imposes restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil fuels such as those used in the Company’s trucks, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. More specifically, legislative or regulatory actions related to climate change could adversely impact the Company by increasing our fuel costs and reducing fuel efficiency and could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades. Any of these factors could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 13 Table of contents 