Item 1A Risk Factors 8 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 11 Item 2 Properties 11 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 11 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 11 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 12 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 14 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 15 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 28 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 29 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 56 Item 9B Other Information 57 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11 Executive Compensation 58 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 59 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 59 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 59 SIGNATURES 62 EXHIBIT INDEX 63 PART I Item 1. Business. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “P.A.M.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” mean P.A.M. Transportation Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries. We are a truckload dry van carrier transporting general commodities throughout the continental United States, as well as in certain Canadian provinces. We also provide transportation services in Mexico under agreements with Mexican carriers. Our freight consists primarily of automotive parts, consumer goods, such as general retail store merchandise, and manufactured goods, such as heating and air conditioning units. P.A.M. Transportation Services, Inc. is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in June 1986 which conducts operations through the following wholly owned subsidiaries: P.A.M. Transport, Inc., T.T.X., Inc., P.A.M. Dedicated Services, Inc., P.A.M. Logistics Services, Inc., Choctaw Express, Inc., Choctaw Brokerage, Inc., Transcend Logistics, Inc., Allen Freight Services, Inc., Decker Transport Co., Inc., East Coast Transport and Logistics, LLC, S & L Logistics, Inc., P.A.M. International, Inc. and P.A.M. Canada, Inc. Our operating authorities are held by P.A.M. Transport, Inc., P.A.M. Dedicated Services, Inc., Choctaw Express, Inc., Choctaw Brokerage, Inc., Allen Freight Services, Inc., T.T.X., Inc., Decker Transport Co., Inc., and East Coast Transport and Logistics, LLC. We are headquartered and maintain our primary terminal and maintenance facilities and our corporate and administrative offices in Tontitown, Arkansas, which is located in northwest Arkansas, a major center for the trucking industry and where the support services (including warranty repair services) for most major truck and trailer equipment manufacturers are readily available. Segment Financial Information The Company's operations are all in the motor carrier segment and are aggregated into a single operating segment in accordance with the aggregation criteria presented in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131. Operations Our operations can generally be classified into truckload services or brokerage and logistics services. Truckload services include those transportation services in which we utilize company owned trucks or owner-operator owned trucks for the pickup and delivery of freight. The brokerage and logistics services consists of services such as transportation scheduling, routing, mode selection, transloading and other value added services related to the transportation of freight which may or may not involve the use of company owned or owner-operator owned equipment. Both our truckload operations and our brokerage and logistics operations have similar economic characteristics and are impacted by virtually the same economic factors as discussed elsewhere in this Report. Truckload services operating revenues, before fuel surcharges represented 89.6%, 90.4%, and 87.8% of total operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The remaining operating revenues, before fuel surcharge for the same periods were generated by brokerage and logistics services, representing 10.4%, 9.6%, and 12.2%, respectively. Approximately 99% of the Company's revenues are generated by operations conducted in the United States and all of the Company's assets are located or based in the United States. 1 Table of contents Business and Growth Strategy Our strategy focuses on the following elements: Maintaining Dedicated Fleets in High Density Lanes. We strive to maximize utilization and increase revenue per truck while minimizing our time and empty miles between loads. In this regard, we seek to provide dedicated equipment to our customers where possible and to concentrate our equipment in defined regions and disciplined traffic lanes. Dedicated fleets in high density lanes enable us to: · maintain more consistent equipment capacity; · provide a high level of service to our customers, including time-sensitive delivery schedules; · attract and retain drivers; and · maintain a sound safety record as drivers travel familiar routes. Providing Superior and Flexible Customer Service. Our wide range of services includes dedicated fleet services, logistics services, “just-in-time” delivery, two-man driving teams, cross-docking and consolidation programs, specialized trailers, and Internet-based customer access to delivery status. These services, combined with a decentralized regional operating strategy, allow us to quickly and reliably respond to the diverse needs of our customers, and provide an advantage in securing new business. We also maintain ISO 9002 certification to ensure that we operate in accordance with approved quality assurance standards. Many of our customers depend on us to make delivery on a “just-in-time” basis, meaning that parts or raw materials are scheduled for delivery as they are needed on the manufacturer’s production line. The need for this service is a product of modern manufacturing and assembly methods that are designed to drastically decrease inventory levels and handling costs. Such requirements place a premium on the freight carrier’s delivery performance and reliability. Employing Stringent Cost Controls. Throughout our organization, emphasis is placed on gaining efficiency in our processes with the primary goals of decreasing costs and improving customer satisfaction. Maintaining a high level of efficiency and prioritizing our focus on improvements allows us to minimize the number of non-driving personnel we employ and positively influence other overhead costs. Expenses are intensely scrutinized for opportunities for elimination, reduction or to further leverage our purchasing power to achieve more favorable pricing. Making Strategic Acquisitions. We continually evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities, focusing on those that complement our existing business or that could profitably expand our business or services. Our operational integration strategy is to centralize administrative functions of acquired businesses at our headquarters, while maintaining the localized operations of acquired businesses. We believe that allowing acquired businesses to continue to operate under their pre-acquisition names and in their original regions allows such businesses to maintain driver loyalty and customer relationships. Industry According to the American Trucking Association’s “American Trucking Trends 2007-2008” report, the trucking industry transported approximately 70% of the total volume of freight transported in the United States during 2006, which equates to an all-time high carrying load of 10.7 billion tons, and $645.6 billion in revenue, representing 83.8% of the nation’s freight bill. The truckload industry is highly fragmented and is impacted by several economic and business factors, many of which are beyond the control of individual carriers. The state of the economy, coupled with equipment capacity levels, can impact freight rates. Volatility of various operating expenses, such as fuel and insurance, make the predictability of profit levels uncertain. Availability, attraction, retention and compensation for drivers also affect operating costs, as well as equipment utilization. In addition, the 2 Table of contents capital requirements for equipment, coupled with potential uncertainty of used equipment values, impact the ability of many carriers to expand their operations. The current operating environment is characterized by the following: · Price increases by truck and trailer equipment manufacturers, volatile fuel costs, and intense competition for freight. · In recent years, many less profitable or undercapitalized carriers have been forced to consolidate or to exit the industry. Competition The trucking industry is highly competitive and includes thousands of carriers, none of which dominates the market in which the Company operates. The Company's market share is less than 1% and we compete primarily with other irregular route medium- to long-haul truckload carriers, with private carriage conducted by our existing and potential customers, and, to a lesser extent, with the railroads. Increased competition has resulted from deregulation of the trucking industry. We compete on the basis of quality of service and delivery performance, as well as price. Many of the other irregular route long-haul truckload carriers have substantially greater financial resources, own more equipment or carry a larger total volume of freight as compared to the Company. Marketing and Significant Customers Our marketing emphasis is directed to that portion of the truckload market which is generally service-sensitive, as opposed to being solely price competitive. We seek to become a “core carrier” for our customers in order to maintain high utilization and capitalize on recurring revenue opportunities. Our marketing efforts are diversified and designed to gain access to dedicated fleet services (including those in Mexico and Canada), domestic regional freight traffic, and cross-docking and consolidation programs. Our marketing efforts are conducted by a sales staff of 10 employees who are located in our major markets and supervised from our headquarters. These individuals work to improve profitability by maintaining an even flow of freight traffic (taking into account the balance between originations and destinations in a given geographical area) and high utilization, and minimizing movement of empty equipment. Our five largest customers, for which we provide carrier services covering a number of geographic locations, accounted for approximately 49%, 56% and 59% of our total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. General Motors Corporation accounted for approximately 31%, 38% and 41% of our revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also provide transportation services to other manufacturers who are suppliers for automobile manufacturers. Approximately 40%, 49% and 52% of our revenues were derived from transportation services provided to the automobile industry during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Revenue Equipment At December 31, 2008, we operated a fleet of 1,839 trucks and 4,809 trailers. We operate late-model, well-maintained premium trucks to help attract and retain drivers, promote safe operations, minimize maintenance and repair costs, and improve customer service by minimizing service interruptions caused by breakdowns. We evaluate our equipment purchasing decisions based on factors such as initial cost, useful life, warranty terms, expected maintenance costs, fuel economy, driver comfort, customer needs, manufacturer support, and resale value. Our current policy is to replace most of our trucks at 500,000 miles, which normally occurs 30 to 48 months after purchase. 3 Table of contents We have historically contracted with owner-operators to provide transportation services for a small portion of our business. Owner-operators provide their own trucks and are contractually responsible for all associated expenses, including financing costs, fuel, maintenance, insurance, and taxes, among other things. They are also responsible for maintaining compliance with the Federal Motor Carrier Administration regulations. We believe that utilizing owner-operators complements our recruiting efforts and offers greater flexibility in responding to fluctuations in customer demand. At December 31, 2008, the Company had 33 owner-operators under contract. During 1999, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) proposed a three-phase strategy to reduce engine emissions from heavy-duty vehicles through a combination of advanced emissions control technologies and diesel fuel with a reduced sulfur content. Each phase and its effect on the Company’s operations, if known, are described below. The first phase (Phase I) mandated new engine emission standards for all model year 2004 heavy-duty trucks; however, through agreements with heavy-duty diesel engine manufacturers, the effective date was accelerated to October 1, 2002. Therefore, effective October 1, 2002, all newly manufactured truck engines had to comply with the new engine emission standards. All truck engines manufactured prior to October 1, 2002 were not subject to these new standards. As of December 31, 2008, the majority of our Company-owned truck fleet consisted of trucks with engines that comply with these emission standards. The Company has experienced a reduction in fuel efficiency and increased depreciation expense due to the higher cost of trucks with these new engines. In the second phase (Phase II), effective January 1, 2007, the EPA mandated a new set of more stringent emission standards for vehicles powered by diesel fuel engines manufactured in 2007 through 2009. These new engines have been designed for and require the use of a more costly type of fuel known as ultra-low-sulfur-diesel (“ULSD”) which, according to EPA estimates, cost from $0.04 to $0.05 more per gallon due to increased refining costs. The EPA also mandated that refiners and importers nationwide must ensure that at least 80% of the volume of the highway diesel fuel they produce or import is ULSD-compliant by June 1, 2006. However, the EPA does not require service stations and truck stops to sell ULSD fuel. Therefore, it is possible that ULSD fuel might not be available in a particular area in which the Company operates. A majority of the Company’s current truck fleet can be fueled with either ULSD or low-sulfur diesel (“LSD”), but additional future purchases of trucks which contain 2007 or later diesel engines will require the use of ULSD fuel which may result in lower fuel economy as the process that removes sulfur can also reduce the energy content of the fuel. As of December 31, 2008, 640 trucks in our Company-owned truck fleet consisted of trucks with engines that comply with the Phase II emission standards and require the use of ULSD. During 2009, the Company expects to take delivery of 38 new trucks, all of which will contain engines compliant with the Phase II emission standards requiring the use of ULSD. As compared to our current Company-owned truck fleet which contain primarily Phase I diesel engines, trucks powered by the Phase II compliant diesel engines have a higher purchase price and as a result, we expect that our depreciation expense will increase as we continue to replace older trucks with trucks powered by the Phase II diesel engines. We also expect that these Phase II diesel engines will result in higher maintenance costs. To the extent we are unable to offset these anticipated increased costs with rate increases charged to customers or offsetting cost savings in other areas, our results of operations would be adversely affected. During the third phase (Phase III), effective in 2010, final emission standards become effective and LSD fuel will no longer be available for highway use. The EPA requires that by June 1, 2010 all diesel fuel imported or produced must be ULSD-compliant as it phases out LSD fuel availability by December 1, 2010 when all highway diesel fuel must be ULSD fuel. We are unable at this time to determine the increase in acquisition and operating costs of trucks powered by the Phase III compliant engines, but we expect that the engines produced under the final standards will be less fuel-efficient and have higher acquisition and maintenance costs than either the Phase I or Phase II compliant engines. 4 Table of contents Technology We have installed Qualcomm Omnitracs™ display units in all of our trucks. The Omnitracs system is a satellite-based global positioning and communications system that allows fleet managers to communicate directly with drivers. Drivers can provide location status and updates directly to our computer system which increases productivity and convenience. The Omnitracs system provides us with accurate estimated time of arrival information, which optimizes load selection and service levels to our customers. In order to optimize our truck-to-trailer ratio, we have also installed Qualcomm TrailerTracs™ tracking units in all of our trailers. The TrailerTracs system is a trailer tracking product that enables us to more efficiently track the location of trailers in our inventory. Our computer system manages the information provided by the Qualcomm devices to provide us with real-time information regarding the location, status and load assignment of all of our equipment, which permits us to better meet delivery schedules, respond to customer inquiries and match equipment with the next available load. Our system also provides real-time information electronically to our customers regarding the status of freight shipments and anticipated arrival times. This system provides our customers flexibility and convenience by extending supply chain visibility through electronic data interchange, the Internet and e-mail. Maintenance We have a strictly enforced comprehensive preventive maintenance program for our trucks and trailers. Inspections and various levels of preventive maintenance are performed at set mileage intervals on both trucks and trailers. A maintenance and safety inspection is performed on all vehicles each time they return to a terminal. Our trucks carry full warranty coverage for at least three years or 350,000 miles. Extended warranties are negotiated with the truck manufacturer and manufacturers of major components, such as engine, transmission and differential manufacturers, for up to four years or 500,000 miles. Our trailers carry full warranties by the manufacturer and major component manufacturers for up to five years. Employees At December 31, 2008, we employed 2,931 persons, of whom 2,493 were drivers, 151 were maintenance personnel, 156 were employed in operations, 12 were employed in marketing, 61 were employed in safety and personnel, and 58 were employed in general administration and accounting. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit and we believe that our employee relations are good. Drivers At December 31, 2008, we utilized 2,493 company drivers in our operations. We also had 33 owner-operators under contract compensated on a per mile basis. Our drivers are compensated on the basis of miles driven, loading and unloading, extra stops and layovers in transit. Drivers can earn bonuses by recruiting other qualified drivers who become employed by us and both cash and non-cash prizes are awarded for consecutive periods of safe, accident-free driving. All of our drivers are recruited, screened, drug tested and trained and are subject to the control and supervision of our operations and safety departments. Our driver training program stresses the importance of safety and reliable, on-time delivery. Drivers are required to report to their driver managers daily and at the earliest possible moment when any condition en route occurs that might delay their scheduled delivery time. In addition to strict application screening and drug testing, before being permitted to operate a vehicle our drivers must undergo classroom instruction on our policies and procedures, safety techniques as taught by the Smith System of Defensive Driving, and the proper operation of equipment, and must pass both written and road tests. Instruction in defensive driving and safety techniques continues after hiring, with seminars at several of our terminals. At December 31, 2008, we employed 61 persons on a full-time basis in our driver recruiting, training and safety instruction programs. 5 Table of contents Historically, intense competition in the trucking industry for qualified drivers has resulted in additional expense to recruit and retain an adequate supply of drivers, and has had a negative impact on the industry. In prior years, our operations have also been impacted and from time to time we have experienced under-utilization and increased expenses due to a shortage of qualified drivers. During 2008, the general economic downturn reduced the trucking industry’s demand for drivers and we did not experience decreases in utilization resulting from a driver shortage. However, we continue to place a high priority on the recruitment and retention of an adequate supply of qualified drivers. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Years of service Robert W. Weaver 59 President and Chief Executive Officer 26 W. Clif Lawson 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 24 Larry J. Goddard 50 Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer 21 Each of our executive officers has held his present position with the Company for at least the last five years. The Company has entered into an employment agreement with Robert W. Weaver that expires on July 10, 2009. The Company has the option to extend the employment agreement for two consecutive years following the July 10, 2009 expiration date for an additional one year at a time. The Company has also entered into employment agreements with both W. Clif Lawson and Larry J. Goddard each of which expire on June 1, 2010. The Company has the option to extend these employment agreements for one additional year following the June 1, 2010 expiration date. Internet Web Site The Company maintains a web site where additional information concerning its business can be found. The address of that web site is www.pamt.com. The Company makes available free of charge on its Internet web site its Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files or furnishes such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Seasonality Our revenues do not exhibit a significant seasonal pattern due primarily to our varied customer mix. Operating expenses can be somewhat higher in the winter months primarily due to decreased fuel efficiency and increased maintenance costs associated with inclement weather. In addition, the automobile plants for which we transport a large amount of freight typically utilize scheduled shutdowns of two weeks in July and one week in December and the volume of freight we ship is reduced during such scheduled plant shutdowns. Regulation We are a common and contract motor carrier regulated by various federal and state agencies. We are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”). Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. All of our drivers are required to obtain national driver’s licenses pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the DOT. Also, DOT regulations impose mandatory drug and alcohol testing of our drivers. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements relating to our trucking business and operate with a “satisfactory” rating (the highest of three grading categories) from the DOT. 6 Table of contents The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”), a separate administration within the DOT charged with regulating motor carrier safety, issued a final rule on April 24, 2003 (“2003 rule”) that made several changes to the regulations that govern truck drivers' hours-of-service (“HOS”). These new federal regulations became effective on January 4, 2004. On July 16, 2004, the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (the “Court”) rejected these new hours of service rules for truck drivers that had been in place since January 2004 because it agreed that the FMCSA had failed to address the impact of the rules on the health of drivers as required by Congress. In addition, the Court’s ruling noted other areas of concern including the increase in driving hours from 10 hours to 11 hours, the exception that allows drivers in trucks with sleeper berths to split their required rest periods, the new rule allowing drivers to reset their 70-hour clock to 0 hours after 34 consecutive hours off duty, and the decision by the FMCSA not to require the use of electronic onboard recorders to monitor driver compliance. However, to avoid industry disruption and burden on the state enforcement, Congress enacted section 7(f) of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2004. This section provided that the 2003 rule would remain in effect until a new rule addressed the Court’s issues or until September 30, 2005, whichever occurred first. On January 24, 2005, the FMCSA re-proposed its April 2003 HOS rules, adding references to how the rules would affect driver health, but made no other changes to the regulations. The FMCSA sought public comments by March 10, 2005 on what changes to the rule, if any, were necessary to respond to the concerns raised by the Court, and to provide data or studies that would support changes to, or continued use of, the 2003 rule. On August 25, 2005, the FMCSA published a final HOS rule (“2005 rule”) that retained most of the provisions of the 2003 rule with the most significant exception being that of requiring drivers that utilize the sleeper berth provision to take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during their ten hours off-duty. Under the 2003 rule, drivers were allowed to split their ten hour off-duty time in the sleeper berth into two periods, provided neither period was less than two hours. The 2005 rule was later challenged in court on several grounds and in July 2007 the Court vacated the 11-hour driving time and 34-hour restart provisions, stating that the FMCSA methodologies, used in the studies regarding how the 2003 rules affected driver health, were not disclosed in time for public comment and that the explanation for some of its critical elements were not provided. In an order filed on September 28, 2007, the Court granted a 90-day stay of the mandate and directed that issuance of the mandate be withheld until December 27, 2007. In an effort to prevent disruption to enforcement and compliance with HOS rules when the stay expires, as well as possible effects on timely delivery of essential goods and services, the FMCSA issued an interim final rule (“IFR”) effective December 27, 2007 which allows commercial motor vehicle drivers up to 11 hours of driving time within a 14-hour, non-extendable window from the start of the workday, following 10 consecutive hours off duty (11-hour limit). This IFR also allows motor carriers and drivers to restart calculations of the weekly on-duty time limits after the driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off duty (34-hour restart provision). During November 2008, the FMCSA announced its final HOS rule and the rule remains unchanged from the previous IFR. This final rule became effective on January 19, 2009. In general, more restrictive sleeper berth provisions may impact multiple-stop shipments and those shipments incurring delays in loading or unloading. Improper planning on such shipments could result in delivery delays and equipment utilization inefficiencies. Our motor carrier operations are also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations dealing with underground fuel storage tanks, the transportation of hazardous materials and other environmental matters, and our operations involve certain inherent environmental risks. We maintain three bulk fuel storage and fuel islands. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and assure compliance with applicable environmental laws. As part of our safety and risk management program, we periodically perform internal environmental reviews so that we can achieve environmental compliance and avoid environmental risk. We transport a minimum amount of environmentally hazardous substances and, to date, have experienced no significant claims for hazardous materials shipments. If we should fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 7 Table of contents Company operations conducted in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are conducted, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred, potentially expose us to claims that we contributed to the environmental contamination. We believe we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations and that the cost of compliance has not materially affected results of operations. In addition to environmental regulations directly affecting our business, we are also subject to the effects of new truck engine design requirements implemented by the EPA. See "Revenue Equipment" above. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. These factors include significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses in the market for used equipment, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors. We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as the automotive industry, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay for our services. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete with other carriers. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to operate at an acceptable profit. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · we compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do; · some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our margins or maintain significant growth in our business; · many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected; · many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors; · the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size and with whom we may have difficulty competing; 8 Table of contents · advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments; · competition from Internet-based and other logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and freight rates; and · economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve their ability to compete with us. We are highly dependent on our major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from our major customers. For 2008, our top five customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 49% of our revenue, and our largest customer, General Motors Corporation, accounted for approximately 31% of our revenue. We also provide transportation services to other manufacturers who are suppliers for automobile manufacturers. As a result, the concentration of our business within the automobile industry is greater than the concentration in a single customer. Approximately 40% of our revenues for 2008 were derived from transportation services provided to the automobile industry. Generally, we do not have long-term contractual relationships with our major customers, and we cannot assure that our customer relationships will continue as presently in effect. A reduction in or termination of our services by our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. The Company is self insured for health and workers compensation insurance coverage up to certain limits. If medical costs continue to increase, or if the severity or number of claims increase, and if we are unable to offset the resulting increases in expenses with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire into our operations. Integrating businesses we acquire may involve unanticipated delays, costs or other operational or financial problems. Successful integration of the businesses we acquire depends on a number of factors, including our ability to transition acquired companies to our management information systems. In integrating businesses we acquire, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability or realize sufficient revenues to justify our investment. We also face the risk that an unexpected problem at one of the companies we acquire will require substantial time and attention from senior management, diverting management’s attention from other aspects of our business. We cannot be certain that our management and operational controls will be able to support us as we grow. Difficulty in attracting drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow. Periodically, the transportation industry experiences difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, resulting in intense competition for drivers. We have from time to time experienced under-utilization and increased expenses due to a shortage of qualified drivers. If we are unable to attract drivers when needed or contract with independent contractors when needed, we could be required to further adjust our driver compensation packages or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. 9 Table of contents If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are highly dependent upon the services of the following key employees: Robert W. Weaver, our President and Chief Executive Officer; W. Clif Lawson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Larry J. Goddard, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of these executives. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. We cannot assure that we will be able to do so. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations. The trucking industry is capital intensive. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at three of our facilities. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours in service, and ergonomics. Compliance with such regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our operating expenses. The EPA adopted new emission control regulations, which require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2010. In part to offset the costs of compliance with the new EPA engine design requirements, some manufacturers have increased new equipment prices and eliminated or sharply reduced the price of repurchase or trade-in commitments. If new equipment prices were to increase, or if the price of repurchase commitments by equipment manufacturers were to decrease more than anticipated, we may be required to increase our depreciation and financing costs and/or retain some of our equipment longer, which may result in an increase in maintenance expenses. To the extent we are unable to offset any such increases in expenses with rate increases or cost savings, our results of operations would be adversely affected. If our fuel or maintenance expenses were to increase as a result of our use of the new, EPA-compliant engines, and we are unable to offset such increases with fuel surcharges or higher freight rates, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Further, our business and operations could be adversely impacted if we experience problems with the reliability of the new engines. Although we have not experienced any significant reliability issues with these engines to date, the expenses associated with the trucks containing these engines have been slightly elevated, primarily as a result of lower fuel efficiency and higher depreciation. 10 Table of contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 