Item 1A. Risk Factors Overview Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase or own our securities that are not otherwise described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following factors or circumstances could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or our ability to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditure obligations, any or all of which could in turn cause a decline in the value of our securities. We have substantial short-term liquidity obligations consisting primarily of short-term indebtedness, which we may be unable to refinance on favorable terms or at all. During 2009, we have an aggregate of $188.5 million of mortgage debt, notes payable and credit facilities scheduled to mature, $19.3 million of scheduled mortgage amortization payments and a $9.4 million required loan paydown. If principal payments on debt due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid, we will be in default under our debt obligations, and we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms. Such defaults may in turn cause cross defaults in certain of our or our affiliates' other debt obligations. In addition, because we are no longer permitted to make draws under our Amended July 2007 Facility and because of the restrictions imposed on us by the Amended July 2007 Facility, the Super Bridge Loan, the Residual Credit Facility and the Indentures, we may not be able to repay or refinance short-term debt obligations that comes due. Until such time as we are able to incur additional indebtedness, put in place an appropriate liquidity facility, raise additional capital or receive distributions from the Residual Joint Venture and/or contributions from our parent, we may be unable to refinance our short-term debt obligations on favorable terms or at all. Also, due to financial constraints of our ultimate Australian parents, it is unlikely that they will be able to make additional equity contributions to alleviate any short-term liquidity issues we may encounter. In connection with our refinancing difficulties, our credit ratings are all below investment grade. Standard & Poor's current rating is CCC+; CreditWatch with developing implications. Fitch's current ratings is CCC; rating watch negative. Moody's current rating is Caa1 and under review for possible downgrade. There may be additional reductions in our ratings depending on our operating performance and our ability to refinance the Amended July 2007 Facility. Furthermore, under certain agreements governing our joint venture investments, our joint ventures may make capital calls upon the joint venture members or partners to fund certain costs of operation. Capital calls by a joint venture could increase our short-term liquidity obligations. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations pursuant to a capital call, we will be in breach of the agreement governing the particular joint venture. We may need to dispose of a number of properties in order to meet our currently budgeted liquidity needs. Based on our currently budgeted liquidity needs, we may need to dispose of certain assets to fund our operations. Because we are no longer permitted to make draws under our Amended July 2007 Facility and because of the restrictions imposed on us by the Amended July 2007 Facility, the Super Bridge 14 Table of Contents Loan, the Residual Credit Facility and the Indentures which, among other things, prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness, if we are unable to complete such asset sales, we may not be able to meet our liquidity needs. In addition, due to certain repayment obligations under the Amended July 2007 Facility, proceeds from the disposition of properties may not be available to meet other liquidity needs. Recent disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or renegotiate our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms and may have other adverse effects on us. Recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse impact on the credit markets and, as a result, credit has become more expensive and difficult to obtain. The United States credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets may have a material adverse effect on us resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to refinance our short-term and long-term debt obligations on favorable terms, if at all, increased financing costs or financing with increasingly restrictive covenants. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to renegotiate our existing indebtedness or to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties in obtaining financing. The negative impact of the recent disruptions in the credit markets on the real estate sector generally or our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements increase the consequences of a default. The Amended July 2007 Facility will cross default upon any default under the Super Bridge Loan, the Residual Credit Facility, the Amended and Restated Preston Ridge Facility or other property debt. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under any of these debt agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under each of such debt instruments to which we are an obligor. Although we are not an obligor under the Super Bridge Loan, the Residual Credit Facility, or the Preston Ridge Facility, a default by any of the obligors pursuant to any of these debt facilities (through non-payment upon maturity, among other things) would, pursuant to the cross-default provisions, trigger a default under the Amended July 2007 Facility. In addition, any defaults or foreclosures under our mortgage debt outstanding could expose us to the possibility of cross-defaults under our obligations under the Indentures or the Amended July 2007 Facility. Our parent's pledge of its ownership interest in us may expose us to possible claims of default in certain of our mortgage debt outstanding, which, if demand for payment is made by the lenders, could cause cross-defaults in certain of our other debt. In the event of a cross-default, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing for the defaulted obligations or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. There are currently no instances of default of debt obligations where cross-default provisions exist with certain debt obligations. There are default and cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements which may be triggered by actions that could be taken (or which are not taken) by entities that we do not control. The Amended July 2007 Facility has several events of default that may be triggered by actions taken (or not taken) by our direct and indirect equity owners and by their other subsidiaries. In addition, the Amended July 2007 Facility will cross-default upon any default under the Super Bridge Loan, the Residual Credit Facility and the Amended and Restated Preston Ridge Facility. As we do not control our equity owners or the obligors under the Super Bridge Loan, the Residual Credit Facility or the Preston Ridge Facility, our liquidity and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by actions that are not within our control. 15 Table of Contents We are limited to financing any liquidity requirements from distributions received from the Residual Joint Venture, and equity contributions from Super LLC, that are funded with borrowings from the Residual Credit Facility, and we may be unable to finance such liquidity requirements after exhaustion of the Residual Credit Facility. We have historically met our short-term liquidity requirements with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our short-term liquidity requirements consist primarily of funds necessary to pay for management fees, operating and other expenses directly associated with our portfolio of properties, interest expense and scheduled principal payments on our outstanding debt and capital expenditures incurred in our development and redevelopment projects. Our current new development pipeline in our Consolidated Portfolio is comprised of two projects, the aggregate cost of which, including costs incurred in prior years on these projects, is expected to be approximately $74.5 million. Our current redevelopment pipeline in our Consolidated Portfolio is comprised of 13 projects, the aggregate cost of which, including costs incurred in prior years on these projects, is expected to be approximately $161.4 million. We presently have $14.6 million of costs, including costs incurred in prior years, attributable to our pro rata share of redevelopment costs for projects in our joint venture portfolio. Our long-term liquidity requirements consist primarily of funds necessary to pay for the principal amount of our long-term debt as it matures, significant non-recurring capital expenditures that need to be made periodically at our properties and redevelopment or development projects that we undertake at our properties. Because we are no longer permitted to make draws under our Amended July 2007 Facility and certain of our or our affiliates' debt agreements currently prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness, we are presently limited to financing any liquidity requirements from distributions received from the Residual Joint Venture, and equity contributions from Super LLC, that are funded with borrowings from the Residual Credit Facility and certain asset sale proceeds. However, we do not control the Residual Joint Venture and cannot cause the Residual Joint Venture to make a draw under the Residual Credit Facility or to distribute the proceeds therefrom. We also are limited by the terms of the Residual Credit Facility as to how much we are able to borrow in connection with such obligations. If we are unable to negotiate additional capacity under the Residual Credit Facility, negotiate other liquidity facilities or negotiate the ability to incur additional indebtedness, we may be unable to finance the balance of these obligations following exhaustion of the Residual Credit Facility. Our financial covenants will restrict our operating and acquisition activities. The Amended July 2007 Facility and the Indentures contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur secured and unsecured debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet any of these covenants, including the financial coverage ratios, could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on us. Due to covenants in the Amended July 2007 Facility, Super Bridge Loan, Residual Credit Facility and our Indentures, we are presently unable to incur additional indebtedness and this restriction will limit our flexibility in restructuring our existing indebtedness. Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in a property or group of properties subject to mortgage debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $400.4 million of mortgage debt outstanding, excluding the impact of unamortized premiums. If a property or group of properties is mortgaged to secure payment of debt and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the holder of the mortgage or lender could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of our investment. Alternatively, if we decide to sell assets in the current market to raise funds to repay matured debt, it is possible that these properties will be disposed of at a loss. Also, certain of our mortgages contain customary negative covenants which, among other things, 16 Table of Contents limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. The matters discussed herein under "Recent Developments" have also made it difficult for us to refinance property level debt in the ordinary course, and we were required to pay higher interest rates on certain property level debt because we were unable to refinance such debt. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The following should be considered with reference to the fact that regardless of our degree of leverage, due to covenants in certain of our indebtedness, we are presently unable to incur additional indebtedness. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the incurrence of debt. The degree of our leverage could have important consequences, including: •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt; •affecting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general purposes; and •making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns. In addition, as a result of the financial and operating covenants described below, our leverage could reduce our flexibility in conducting our business and planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the real estate industry. The economic performance and value of our properties are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry. As a real estate company, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and operating real estate, including: •changes in national, regional and local economic climate; •local conditions, including an oversupply of space in properties similar to those that we own, or a reduction in demand for properties similar to those that we own; •the attractiveness of our properties to tenants; •the financial stability of tenants, including the ability of tenants to pay rent; •competition from other available properties; •changes in market rental rates; •the need to periodically fund the costs to repair, renovate and re-let space; •changes in operating costs, including costs for maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes; •earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes and other natural disasters, civil unrest, terrorist acts or acts of war, which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; •the fact that the expenses of owning and operating properties are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the properties; and •changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes. Downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct impact on our performance. Our properties consist of community and neighborhood shopping centers and other retail properties. Our performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space generally, and a decrease in the demand for retail space may have a greater adverse effect on our business and financial condition than if we owned a more diversified real estate portfolio. The market for retail space has 17 Table of Contents been adversely affected by weakness in national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition of some retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets, and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the Internet. To the extent that any of these conditions worsen, they are likely to further impact market rents for retail space and could adversely affect our business. In addition, our concentration in retail properties means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and terrorist activities. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a financial downturn, with consumer spending on the decline, credit tightening and unemployment rising. Many financial and economic analysts are predicting that the world economy may be entering into a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit and decreased consumer and business spending. This economic downturn is expected to adversely affect the businesses of many of our tenants. The likelihood that the United States is entering a prolonged recession could adversely affect consumer spending. A further reduction in consumer spending or confidence could have further adverse effects on our results of operations or financial condition. Failure by any anchor tenant with leases in multiple locations to make rental payments to us, because of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, could seriously harm our performance. Our performance depends on our ability to collect rent, through our property managers, from tenants. At any time, our tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their financial condition. As a result, our tenants may delay a number of lease commencements, decline to extend or renew a number of leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due under a number of leases, close a number of stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant's leases, or expiration of existing leases without renewal, and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated or expired leases. In addition, lease terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In that event, our property manager may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all. The occurrence of any of the situations described above, particularly if it involves a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, could seriously harm our performance. As of December 31, 2008, our largest tenants were The Kroger Co. and Sears Holdings Corp., the scheduled ABR for which represented 3.5% and 2.5%, respectively, of our total ABR excluding our pro rata share of ABR generated by properties owned by unconsolidated joint ventures. We are unable to collect balances due from an increasing number of tenants in bankruptcy and face potential adverse effects as a result. Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur in the course of our operations. We are continually re-leasing vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations. We have seen a significant increase in tenant bankruptcies in 2008 and current economic conditions suggest this trend could continue or worsen. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor bars all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or the lease guarantor, or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. These tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcies delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws that limit the amount of the claim we can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, in many tenant bankruptcies, we recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold from a bankrupt tenant. Additionally, the bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it 18 Table of Contents more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy. As a result, tenant bankruptcies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Current and future development and redevelopment of real estate properties may not yield expected returns and may strain management resources. We are actively involved in several ongoing redevelopment projects, and a few development projects. We also expect to complete the current new development projects in our pipeline and invest in additional redevelopment projects in the future if financial and market conditions warrant it. Redevelopment and new development of properties are subject to a number of risks, including the following: •abandonment of development activities after expending resources to determine feasibility; •construction and/or lease-up delays; •cost overruns, including construction costs that exceed our original estimates; •failure to achieve expected occupancy and/or rent levels within the projected time frame, if at all; and •delays with respect to obtaining or the inability to obtain necessary zoning, occupancy, land use and other governmental permits, and changes in zoning and land use laws. If any of these problems occur, overall project costs may significantly exceed the costs that were estimated when the project was originally undertaken, which will result in reduced returns, or even losses, from such investments. In addition, we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund such projects and delays in the completion of a development or redevelopment project may provide various tenants the right to withdraw from a property. In connection with the Supplement to the July 2007 Facility, we are no longer permitted to make draws under our Amended July 2007 Facility, and are limited to financing any development and redevelopment costs from distributions received from the Residual Joint Venture, and equity contributions from Super LLC, that are funded with borrowings from the Residual Credit Facility and certain asset sale proceeds. We also are limited by the terms of the Residual Credit Facility as to how much we are able to borrow in connection with such development and redevelopment costs. If we are unable to negotiate additional capacity under the Residual Credit Facility, negotiate other liquidity facilities or complete certain asset sales, we may be unable to finance further development and redevelopment following exhaustion of the Residual Credit Facility. Our current and future joint venture investments could be adversely affected by a lack of sole decision-making authority and our reliance on joint venture partners' financial condition. In some of our joint ventures, we have invested as a co-venturer or partner in the development or redevelopment of new properties, instead of developing projects directly. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly owned development or redevelopment project, including the following: •in these investments, we do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of the project, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners; •we may be required to obtain prior consent from our co-venturers or partners for a sale or transfer to a third party of our interests in the joint venture, which restricts our ability to dispose of our interest in the joint venture; 19 Table of Contents •our co-venturers or partners might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our interests or otherwise impede our objectives; •our co-venturers or partners also might become insolvent or bankrupt, which may delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture; •such investments have the potential risk of impasse on certain major decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor our partner or co-venturer typically have full control over the joint venture; •any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our expenses and distract management from focusing their time and effort on our business; and •we might be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners in certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $673.1 million of investments in and advances to ten unconsolidated joint ventures that own an aggregate of 257 properties. The largest of these investments is our investment in the Residual Joint Venture. We have a 49% equity interest in the Residual Joint Venture. Our investment in the Residual Joint Venture is subject to the risks described above for jointly owned investments. As of December 31, 2008, this joint venture was comprised of 110 stabilized assets and three assets undergoing redevelopment. Potential continued deterioration of investments in / advances to unconsolidated joint ventures. With the potential continued negative outlook over the US retail real estate markets and also potential decreases in risk free rates pertaining to long term debt, there is a risk of continued deterioration of the value of our investments in / advances to unconsolidated joint ventures. This may result in further impairments of the carrying value of our investments in / advances to unconsolidated joint ventures in addition to the $63.8 million impairment recorded by us that was deemed to be an other than temporary impairment for the year ended December 31, 2008. We currently do not have any plans to undertake any additional investments in / advances to unconsolidated joint ventures other than those which we are contractually obligated to make to our current investments in / advances to unconsolidated joint ventures. Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment generally will occur upon disposition or refinance of the underlying property. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale, other disposition or refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. Recently, it has become increasingly more difficult to dispose of real estate properties due to the downturn in the U.S. economy and the limited availability of credit. Additionally, based on our currently budgeted liquidity needs, we may need to dispose of certain assets in order to fund our operations but are limited by certain of our debt agreements as to the aggregate value of the assets we may dispose of. This requirement may require us to dispose of properties on less than favorable terms. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our financial position. 20 Table of Contents Some potential losses are not covered by insurance, so we could lose a significant portion of our investment in a property. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, rental loss and acts of terrorism insurance on all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these policies are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. There are, however, certain types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, acts of war and acts of God, and, in some cases, flooding, that generally are not insured, either because such coverage is not available or is not available at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss which is uninsured or which exceeds policy limits, we could lose a significant portion of the capital we have invested in the damaged property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. There can be no assurance as to future costs and the scope of coverage that may be available under insurance policies. Although we believe our properties are adequately covered by insurance, we cannot predict at this time if we will be able to obtain full coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. The costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. We currently have variable rate debt obligations, which could be substantial in the future and may impede our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $487.7 million of outstanding floating rate debt not subject to any form of interest rate cap, maturing at various times up to September 1, 2011. In connection with the Supplement to the Amended July 2007 Facility, we are presently not permitted to make draws under our Amended July 2007 Facility. Furthermore, the rates on our variable rate indebtedness increase when interest rates increase. Interest rates are currently low relative to historical levels and may increase significantly in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense not subject to interest rate cap, which would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt. As discussed above, we may borrow additional money with floating interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates, or the loss of the benefits of our existing or future hedging agreements, would increase our interest expense, which would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service our debt. Future increases in interest rates will increase our interest expense as compared to the fixed rate debt underlying our hedging agreements and could result in our making payments to unwind such agreements. Environmental problems that exist at some of our properties could result in significant unexpected costs. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations that apply generally to the ownership of real property and the operations conducted on real property. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be considered an owner or operator of real property or may have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property and, therefore, may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances released on or in our property or disposed of by us, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). Such liability may be imposed whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of these hazardous or toxic substances. As is common with community and neighborhood shopping centers, many of our properties had or have on-site dry cleaners and/or on-site gasoline facilities. These operations could potentially result in environmental contamination at the properties. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly 21 Table of Contents remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. We are aware that soil and groundwater contamination exists at some of our properties. The primary contaminants of concern at these properties include perchloroethylene and trichloroethylene (associated with the operations of on-site dry cleaners) and petroleum hydrocarbons (associated with the operations of on-site gasoline facilities). We also are aware that asbestos-containing materials exist at some of our properties. While we do not expect the environmental conditions at our properties, considered as a whole, to have a material adverse effect on us, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Further, no assurance can be given that any environmental studies performed have identified or will identify all material environmental conditions, that any prior owner of the properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist with respect to any of our properties. Further information relating to recognition of remediation obligation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles is provided in the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We face considerable competition in the leasing market and may be unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire. Through our property manager, we compete with a number of other companies in providing leases to prospective tenants and in re-letting space to current tenants upon expiration of their respective leases. If our tenants decide not to renew or extend their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to re-let the space. Even if the tenants do renew or we can re-let the space, the terms of renewal or re-letting, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable or more costly than current lease terms or than expectations for the space. As of December 31, 2008, leases were scheduled to expire on a total of approximately 13% of the space at our properties (excluding our pro rata share of properties owned by unconsolidated joint ventures) through 2009. Our property manager may be unable to promptly renew the leases or re-let this space, or the rental rates upon renewal or re-letting may be significantly lower than expected rates. Our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of the liquidity risk factors discussed above, specifically our reliance upon funding provided by an entity that we do not control; current prohibition upon our ability to incur further indebtedness; the existence of restrictions upon operations which increase the risk of default and cross-default of existing debt, combined with the continued liquidity issues of our ultimate parents, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The half yearly financial statements of our ultimate parents, CPL and CPT, which were lodged with Australian regulatory bodies on February 26, 2009 included discussion of significant uncertainty (equivalent to substantial doubt) about those entities ability to continue as a going concern. We have obtained extension of our existing debt facilities, and during the period to the maturity of these facilities we will be working with management of our ultimate parent investors and our lenders to restructure and address our liquidity issues. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 