ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to 10 Table of Contents various risks. The material risks are described below, and should be carefully considered in evaluating Odyssey or any investment decision relating to our securities. This section is intended only as a summary of the principal risks. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Our business involves a high degree of risk. An investment in Odyssey is extremely speculative and of exceptionally high risk. Although we have access to a substantial amount of research and data which has been compiled regarding various shipwreck projects, the quality and reliability of such research and data is uncertain. Even if we are able to plan and obtain permits for our various projects, there is a possibility that the shipwrecks may have already been salvaged or may not be found, or may not have had anything valuable on board at the time of the sinking. Even if objects of value are located and recovered, there is the possibility that the excavation cost will exceed the value of the objects recovered or those others, including both private parties and governmental entities, will assert conflicting claims and challenge our rights to the recovered objects. Finally, even if we are successful in locating and retrieving objects from a shipwreck and establishing title to them, there are no assurances as to the value that such objects will bring at their sale, as the market for such objects is uncertain. The research and data we use may not be reliable. The success of a shipwreck project is dependent to a substantial degree upon the research and data we have obtained. By its very nature, research and data regarding shipwrecks can be imprecise, incomplete and unreliable. It is often composed of or affected by numerous assumptions, rumors, legends, historical and scientific inaccuracies and misinterpretations which have become a part of such research and data over time. Operations may be affected by natural hazards. Underwater recovery operations are inherently difficult and dangerous and may be delayed or suspended by weather, sea conditions or other natural hazards. Further, such operations may be undertaken more safely during certain months of the year than others. We cannot guarantee that we, or the entities we are affiliated with, will be able to conduct search and recovery operations during favorable periods. In addition, even though sea conditions in a particular search location may be somewhat predictable, the possibility exists that unexpected conditions may occur that adversely affect our operations. It is also possible that natural hazards may prevent or significantly delay search and recovery operations. We may be unable to establish our rights to any objects we recover. Persons and entities other than Odyssey and entities we are affiliated with (both private and governmental) may claim title to the shipwrecks and/or valuable cargo that we may recover. Even if we are successful in locating and recovering shipwrecks and/or valuable cargo, we cannot assure we will be able to establish our right to property recovered if challenged by governmental entities, prior owners, or other attempted salvors claiming an interest therein. In such an event we could spend a great deal of time and money on a shipwreck project, and receive no salvage claim or revenue for our work. The market for any objects we recover is uncertain. Even if valuable items can be located and recovered in the future, it is difficult to predict the price that might be realized for such items. The value of recovered items will fluctuate with the precious metals market, which has been highly volatile in past years. In addition, the entrance on the market of a large supply of similar items from shipwrecks and/or valuable cargo located and recovered by others could depress the market. We could experience delays in the disposition or sale of recovered objects. The methods and channels that may be used in the disposition or sale of recovered items are uncertain at present and may include several alternatives. Ready access to buyers for any artifacts or other valuable items recovered cannot be guaranteed. Delays in the disposition of such items could adversely affect our cash flow. Legal, political or civil issues could interfere with our marine operations. Legal, political or civil initiatives of countries and/or major maritime governments could restrict access to our operational marine sites or interfere with our marine operations. Objects we recover could be stolen from us. If we locate a shipwreck and assert a valid claim to items of value, there is a risk of theft of such items at sea by “pirates” or poachers before or after the recovery or while in transit to a safe destination as well as when stored in a secured location. Such thefts may not be adequately covered by insurance. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to get permission to conduct salvage operations. It is possible we will not be successful in obtaining title or permission to excavate certain wrecks. In addition, permits that are sought for the projects may never be issued, and if issued, may not be legal or honored by the entities that issued them. Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may increase our costs or otherwise affect the profitability of our businesses. As changes in our business environment occur we may need to adjust our business strategies to meet these changes or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations or particular businesses or assets. When these changes or events occur, we may incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down the value of assets. In any of these events our costs may increase, and we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets. We may be unsuccessful in raising the necessary capital to fund operations and capital expenditures. Our ability to generate cash flow is dependent upon the success of our ability to recover and monetize high-value shipwrecks. However, we cannot guarantee that the sales of our products and other available cash sources will generate sufficient cash flow to meet our overall cash requirements. If cash flow is not sufficient to meet our business requirements, we will be required to raise additional capital through other financing activities. While we have been successful in raising the necessary funds in the past, there can be no assurance we can continue to do so in the future. We depend on key employees and face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management and other employees are difficult to replace. We currently do not have employment contracts with our key employees. We may not be able to retain highly qualified employees in the future which could adversely affect our business. We may continue to experience significant losses from operations. We have experienced a net loss in every fiscal year since our inception except for 2004. Our losses from operations were $18.2 million in 2012, $16.2 million in 2011 and $23.3 million in 2010. Even if we do generate operating income in one or more quarters in the future, subsequent developments in our industry, customer base, business or cost structure or an event such as significant litigation or a significant transaction may cause us to again experience operating losses. We may not become profitable for the long-term, or even for any quarter Technological obsolescence of our marine assets or failure of critical equipment could put a strain on our capital requirements or operational capabilities. We employ state-of-the-art technology including side-scan sonar, magnetometer, ROVs, and other advanced science and technology to locate and recover shipwrecks at depths previously unreachable in an economically feasible manner. Although we try to maintain redundancy on critical equipment and components, equipment failures may require us to delay or suspend operations. Also, while we endeavor to keep marine equipment in excellent working condition and current with all available upgrades, technological advances in new equipment may provide superior efficiencies than the capabilities of our existing equipment and this could require us to purchase new equipment which could require additional needs for capital. We may not be able to contract with clients or customers for marine services or syndicated projects. During 2012 and 2011 we recorded approximately $5 million and $15 million of revenue, respectively, by chartering vessels, equipment and crew and providing marine services to clients or customers. While the results of these syndicated projects were generally successful, the clients or customers may not be willing or financially able to continue with syndicated projects of this type in the future. Failure to secure such revenue producing contracts in the future would have a material impact on our revenue and operating cash flows. The issuance of shares at conversion prices lower than the market price at the time of conversion and the sale of such shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Some of our outstanding shares may have been acquired from time to time upon conversion of outstanding senior convertible notes at conversion prices that are lower than the market price of our common stock at the time of conversion. Odyssey has agreed to pay each amortization payment due under the notes in shares of Odyssey’s common stock, if certain conditions are met; provided, that Odyssey may, at its option, elect to pay such amortization payments in cash. The conversion rate applicable to any amortization payment in shares of Odyssey’s common stock will be the lower of (a) the then-current conversion price and (b) a price equal to 85.0% of the average of the volume-weighted average price of Odyssey’s shares of common stock for a ten-day period immediately prior to the applicable amortization date. Conversion of the notes at conversion prices that are lower than the market price at the time of conversion and the sale of the shares issued upon conversion could have an adverse effect upon the market price of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Investments in subsea mineral exploration companies may prove unsuccessful. We have invested in marine mineral exploration companies that to date are still in the development phase, and have not begun to earn revenue from operations. Depending on the entity, we may or may not have control or input on the future development of these businesses. There can be no assurance that these companies will achieve profitability or otherwise be successful in capitalizing on the mineral resources they intend to exploit. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 