Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The business of providing merchandising, design/build, creative/point of sale, furniture, and branding/marketing services to financial services institutions and traditional retailers is highly competitive. If we are not able to compete effectively, our revenues and profit margins will be adversely affected. The consulting design services, merchandising markets, and the store build-out industry in which we operate, although fragmented, includes a large number of service providers, making our business highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources; larger customer bases; greater name recognition; and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we have. Larger and better-capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to the need for technical changes, to price their services more aggressively, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, and to compete for market share generally. 7 Our current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their abilities to address client needs. New competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and gain significant market share. Some of our competitors may have or may develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, or provide superior services that gain greater market acceptance than the services that we offer or develop. Furthermore, our clients may establish either strategic sourcing or centralized purchasing departments, which may aggressively pursue low cost producers at the expense of value-add firms. In order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our prices, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues, gross margins and net profits. In addition, financial institutions may not choose to outsource their design and merchandising needs, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue growth. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to expand and diversify our revenue base or enter into new partnerships to further expand our business. Because our business and revenues are contract driven, we are not able to maintain a steady revenue stream. As such, we continue to seek acquisitions/partnerships, expand and diversify our customer base in our core industry, and pursue new growth opportunities in other vertical markets. We may fund such acquisitions or other transactions through the issuance of equity or debt securities, with indebtedness or cash, through other forms of compensation and incentives, or any combination thereof. If we identify an appropriate acquisitions candidate or other business transaction, we may need to seek additional financing, although no assurances can be given that we will be able to expand our business to other vertical markets, find suitable acquisition/partners, or obtain additional financing if necessary, on favorable terms or at all. A significant or prolonged economic downturn could have a materially adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn, is affected by economic activity in general. If there were a continued economic downturn, we might experience a reduction in the growth of new business, as well as a reduction in existing business, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and the results of operations. We may also experience decreased demand for our services as a result of postponed or terminated outsourcing, budget reductions, reductions in the size of our clients’ design/build and retail merchandising needs, or mergers and/or consolidations in the financial services industry. Reduced demand for the services that we offer could also increase price competition within our industry by our competitors, which could further diminish our revenues. We derive a large portion of our revenues from the financial services industry, which has experienced viability issues among certain institutions as well as consolidated in recent years, and if it continues to experience these issues, we may be adversely affected by a reduction in available market share. The financial services industry, which we serve, has experienced significant viability issues among certain institutions as well as, a number of mergers and acquisitions in recent years. While we may experience a short-term gain in the demand for our products and services as a result of mergers and consolidations, long term, we may lose existing clients due to financial constraints by way of the merger activity as a result of a reduction in available market share, which could adversely affect our revenues. The profitability of our engagements with clients may not meet our expectations. There are a number of variables, some of which are beyond our control, that go into determining the profitability of a particular project we undertake. Unexpected costs from suppliers or delays encountered in our projects could make our outsourcing contracts or consulting engagements less profitable than anticipated. When making proposals for outsourcing or consulting contracts, we estimate the costs associated with such engagements. Any increased or unexpected costs of unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could have an adverse effect on our profit margin. In the event we are unable to meet completion schedules, we may experience payment penalties with our clients reducing the profitability of an engagement. 8 Additionally, we may also be subject to cost overruns as a result of delays beyond our control. Cost overruns or early contract terminations could cause our business to be less profitable than anticipated. In connection with some of our design/build construction projects, we may experience delays in receiving final certificates of occupancy, which might result in payment delays by our clients. From time to time, we may also encounter changes in construction and building codes that might increase the costs of a long-term build-out project, which we may be unable to pass along to a client. Our clients typically retain us on a contract engagement by contract engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. Large client projects may involve multiple engagements, and locations, and there is a risk that a client may not choose to retain us or may cancel or delay additional stages of a project. These terminations, cancellations, or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or to the progress of the project, such as the business or financial condition of the client, or general economic conditions. When engagements are terminated, we lose the associated revenues, and we may not be able to eliminate all of the associated costs or redeploy the affected employees in a timely manner to minimize the negative impact on profitability. The loss of a significantly large client or several clients could have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. Although our client relationships are often on a project-by-project basis, the loss of a significantly large client or several clients could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Over the past three (3) completed fiscal years, we have derived at least ten (10%) percent of our revenues from at least one or more significant clients. Given the amount of time needed to develop new clients, there is no assurance that we would be able to promptly replace the revenues lost if a significantly large client, or several clients terminated our services. In order to grow our business, we may need to do so in part by acquisitions, which may be difficult to integrate or manage with our existing businesses, which may harm our financial results or reputation in the marketplace. Because of the nature of our business and the market we serve, our expansion and growth may be dependent in part on our ability to make acquisitions of similar companies, or companies that provide synergy with our business. The risks we face related to acquisitions include: · Overpaying for acquired businesses · Facing integration challenges · Having difficulty in finding appropriate acquisition candidates We may pursue acquisitions in the future, which may subject us to a number of risks, including: · Diversion of management attention; · Amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our reporting results; · Inability to establish uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; · Inability to retain the acquired company’s clients; · Exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition; and · Inability to effectively integrate the acquired company and its employees into our organization. We may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or in consummating acquisitions on terms acceptable or favorable to us. We may not succeed in integrating or managing acquired businesses, or in managing the larger company that could result from these acquisitions. Client dissatisfaction or performance problems, as a result of integration or management difficulties or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our reputation. In addition, any acquired business could significantly underperform relative to our expectations. 9 Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to keep pace with marketing changes and the needs of our clients. Our industry continues to evolve, and traditional revenue streams continue to be modified. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement design and marketing plans that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis, and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Also, marketing plans developed by our competitors may make our service non-competitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete important client engagements. Our business is also dependent, in part, upon continued growth in business by our clients and prospective clients, and our ability to deliver innovative design and marketing concepts to our clients. The effort to gain new clients may require us to incur significant expenses. If we cannot offer innovative, cost-effective approaches as compared to our competitors, we could lose market share. If our clients or third parties are not satisfied with our services, we may face damage to our professional reputation, or legal liability and payment delays. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality outsourcing and consulting services. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services or products, it may be more damaging to our business than in other businesses. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability, or the loss of client relationships. Clients and third parties, who are dissatisfied with our services, or who claim to suffer damages caused by our services, may bring lawsuits against us. Defending lawsuits arising out of any of our services could require substantial amounts of management attention, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to the risks of liability exposure and increased costs of defense and insurance premiums, claims may produce publicity that might hurt our reputation and business. The nature of our design/build work involves the use of a large number of subcontractors, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on the profitability of any given project. In the event that the implementation or design or a project is delayed as a result of a dispute with a subcontractor or client, payment may be delayed and cause a cash flow deficit in our business. Additionally, subcontractors and vendors could file liens for materials and services that could create client problems that could delay payment. Our ability to schedule and rely upon these subcontractors for the timely and proper completion of a project is essential. The failure of a subcontractor to timely or properly perform a job on a project could have a ripple effect that might adversely affect our revenue stream. The loss of key employees could damage or result in the loss of client relationships and adversely affect our business. Our success largely depends upon the business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our employees. In particular, our employees’ personal relationships with our clients are an important element of obtaining and maintaining client engagements. Losing employees who manage substantial client relationships, or who possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have non-compete agreements with certain employees. However, the enforceability of these agreements may be limited because of the limitations that have restricted their enforceability due to court decisions in various states. In addition, if any of our key employees were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. Clients or other companies seeking to develop in-house services similar to ours also could hire our key employees. Such hiring would not only result in our loss of key employees, but might also result in the loss of a client relationship or a new business opportunity. 10 If we fail to establish and maintain alliances for developing, marketing, and delivering our services, our ability to increase our revenues and profitability may suffer. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain alliances with businesses, such as banks and financial services firms and companies, in order to develop, market, and deliver our services. If our strategic alliances were to be discontinued, or if we have difficulty developing new alliances, our ability to increase or maintain our client base may be substantially diminished. Increases in labor and material costs could result in a decline in profitability. We are subject to cost increases for both labor and materials, and while we have a good relationship with our employees, we cannot be certain that we will not face an increase in our labor costs, or an increase in the labor costs of our vendors and subcontractors that perform services on our projects. Additionally, we are subject to material price increases that can be imposed on us during or after we have submitted a bid price for a project, and while we attempt to pass along cost increases for labor and materials, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. An increase in borrowing costs or retraction in the economy may have an adverse impact on our core business. In the event of any increase in the prime and federal funds lending rates, or a general economic downturn, our clients may postpone or eliminate new projects, as well as related consulting services, which could have an adverse effect on our resources and profit. The price of our shares may be adversely affected by the public sale of a significant number of the shares eligible for future sale. In the past, we have raised money through the sale of shares of our common stock or derivative securities that may convert into shares of our common stock at a discount to the current market price. Such arrangements have included the private sale of shares to investors on the condition that we register such shares for resale by the investors to the public. These arrangements have taken various forms, including private investments in public equities or “PIPE” transactions, and other transactions. We will continue to seek financing on an as-needed basis on terms that are negotiated in arms-length transactions. Moreover, the perceived risk of dilution may cause our existing shareholders and other holders to sell their shares of stock, which would contribute to a decrease in our stock price. In this regard, significant downward pressure on the trading price of our stock may also cause investors to engage in “short” sales, which would further contribute to significant downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. We may be required to repurchase certain warrants or underlying warrant shares. Our subordinated lender, Corporate Mezzanine II, L.P., as part of our financings, was issued 405,000 warrants to purchase 405,000 shares of our common stock at $0.01 per share, an additional 10,000 warrants to purchase 10,000 shares at $0.24 per share, and an additional 250,000 warrants to purchase 250,000 shares at $0.26 per share. The warrants, which expire on October 22, 2011, contain both anti-dilution price and share equivalent protection, which is triggered by our issuing shares or warrants below the market value price of our stock on the date of issuance. The holder of the warrants and/or underlying warrant shares has the right to “put” the warrant or underlying shares to us and we are required to repurchase the warrants and/or warrant shares. In the event we do not have sufficient available funds to repurchase the warrants, we may be required to issue a three-year promissory note with interest at 18% per annum as payment for the warrants or shares. We have incurred losses in the past, and we may incur losses in the future. We have incurred losses in a majority of our fiscal years since our inception. This past fiscal year, we had a loss of approximately $2,279,000, prompted primarily by an impairment charge to Goodwill of $2,000,000. Depending upon business cycles and other factors beyond our control, we may experience losses in the future, or in the event of a quarterly profit, profits may not be sustainable. 11 We may require additional financing to sustain our business operations or implement business initiatives in the future. Although we believe that we currently have sufficient funding in place to sustain our present business operations for the foreseeable future, we may continue to seek additional financing through the issuance of equity or debt. Additionally, if we experience any changes in the revenues we derive from our products and services, we may require additional funding to maintain our current business operations. Unless we are able to generate additional revenue from our current business, we will require additional funds to implement any business initiatives we may seek to realize in the future. We are dependent upon our current credit facility to maintain our operations. We are party to a commercial loan agreement with a lender through which we have a revolving line of credit of up to $5,000,000. All of the assets of our wholly owned subsidiaries are pledged to secure the credit facility, which requires us to make principal and interest payments over the life of the facility. The credit facility imposes certain loan covenants on us. We have in the past been unable to satisfy these covenants. In the event we fail to satisfy the covenants or if we do not receive a waiver from our lender or a modification of same, we would be in default under our commercial loan agreement, and our lender could call the full outstanding facility due, which would have a materially adverse effect on our ability to maintain our business operations. Further our credit facility currently elapses May [ ]. In the event we are not able to renew the facility on comparable or more favorable terms, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our business operations. We are subject to a subordinate financing arrangement that requires quarterly interest payments and matures in October 2010, at which time we will be required to make a payment of approximately $7.1 million to the lender. We are party to a subordinate loan agreement with Corporate Mezzanine II, L.P., secured by a pledge of all our assets. As of March 28, 2009, the balance of the note was approximately $6.7 million. The facility requires quarterly interest payments and matures in October 2010, at which time a balloon payment of approximately $7.1 million will be due. While we are seeking to modify terms of the facility, if we are unable to modify same or make payment on this facility at any time or at the maturity date of same, of if we are unable to abide by the financial covenants of the facility, we may be deemed in default of the subordinate loan agreement. There is no assurance that we will be able to make quarterly interest payments or have adequate funds or will be able to make arrangements for financing to satisfy this facility when it matures in 2010. Failing to have adequate funds to satisfy the facility will result in a default. Shareholders of our common stock may face dilution of their holdings. The exercise of some or all of our outstanding warrants and stock options would dilute the then existing stockholders’ ownership of common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, the existence of a significant number of outstanding options and warrants could depress the price of our common stock. Moreover, the terms upon which we would be able to obtain additional equity capital could be adversely affected because the holders of such securities can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable than those provided by such securities. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock’ rules of the SEC, and the trading marketing in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. Shares of our common stock are “penny stocks” as defined in the Exchange Act, which are traded in the Over-the-Counter Market on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the price of the shares of the common stock being registered hereby. In addition, the “penny stock” rules adopted by the Commission under the Exchange Act subject the sale of shares of our common stock to certain regulations which impose sales practice requirements on brokers/dealers. For example, brokers/dealers selling securities must, prior to effecting the transaction, provide their customers with a document that discloses the risks of investing in such securities. Included in this document are the following: · The bid and offer price quotes in and for the “penny stock” and the number of shares to which the quoted prices apply. 12 · The brokerage firm’s compensation for the trade. · The compensation received by the brokerage firm’s salesperson for the trade. In addition, the brokerage firm must send the investor: · A monthly account statement that gives an estimate of the value of each “penny stock” in the investor’s account. · A written statement of the investor’s financial situation and investment goals. Legal remedies, which may be available to you as an investor in “penny stocks” are as follows: · If a “penny stock” is sold to an individual in violation of the rights listed above, or other federal or states securities laws, the person may be able to cancel the purchase and receive a refund · If the stocks are sold in a fraudulent manner, the individual may be able to sue the persons and firms that caused the fraud for damages. · If an arbitration agreement was signed, however, the claim may have to be pursued through arbitration. If the person purchasing the securities is someone other than an accredited investor or an established customer of the broker/dealer, the broker/dealer must also approve the potential customer’s account by obtaining information concerning the customer’s financial situation, investment experience, and investment objectives. The broker/dealer must also make a determination as to whether the transaction is suitable for the customer, and whether the customer has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be reasonably expected to be capable of evaluating the risk of transactions in such securities. Accordingly, the Commission’s rules may limit the number of potential purchases of the shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation places limitations on the liability of our directors. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision to eliminate, to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law as in effect from time to time (the “DGCL”), the personal liability of our directors for monetary damages arising from a breach in their fiduciary duties as directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions requiring us to indemnify to the fullest extent permitted by the DGCL any persons made party to or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Company, or is or was serving at our request as a director or officer of another corporation or entity, against all expense, liability or loss incurred in connection therewith. Such provisions also permit us, to the extent authorized by our Board of Directors, to indemnify and grant rights to indemnification to our employees and agents to the fullest extent such indemnification is available to officers and directors. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult to effectuate change in the composition of our Board. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock to change the composition of the Board of Directors and to remove existing management where a majority of the stockholders may be dissatisfied with the performance of the incumbent directors or otherwise desire to make changes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Staff issued a Comment Letter requesting that the Company file full amendments to its Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 to reflect corrected Section 906 Certifications. The Company has filed the amendments effective March 25, 2009 and is waiting further comment or confirmation from the Staff. Item 