Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described below. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of, or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and operations may be adversely affected if any of such risks are realized. All investors should consider the following risk factors before deciding to purchase or sell our securities. Risks Related to Our Business Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. In 2008, general worldwide economic conditions began to decline due to the sequential effects of the sub-prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. This global economic downturn and uncertain and uneven economic recovery pose risks as consumers and businesses may postpone spending, or seek new ways to eliminate spending, in response to these uncertain and challenging economic conditions. In addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, insolvency of key suppliers and customer insolvencies. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or recession or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific markets we serve. If the markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Certain officers and directors have significant control over our company. Liu Yan-qing and Han Xiao-yan, who are officers and directors of ours, also serve as officers and directors of ACPG, TDR and its subsidiaries. As of the date hereof, Dr. Liu and Ms. Han own, in the aggregate, approximately 36.6% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders are effectively able to significantly influence certain corporate governance matters requiring shareholders’ approval. Such matters may include transactions in which they have an interest other than as a shareholder of ours, the approval of significant corporate transactions such as increasing the authorized number of our shares to complete acquisitions or raise capital, if necessary, as well as the election of directors which could result in the entrenchment of management. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, Liu Yan-qing, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Han Xiao-yan, Vice Chairman, Stanley Hao, Vice President and Secretary and Hongyu Pan, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. We do not have employment agreements with these members of management. Accordingly, if any of these persons should leave the company, we would have no remedy or protections in place and would not be able to prevent them from competing with us or working for competitors. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. In addition, we do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. Our expansion plan may not be successful. Part of our strategy is to continue our growth through increasing the distribution and sales of our products by penetrating existing markets in the PRC, and entering new geographic markets in the PRC as well as Asia, the United States and other countries. However, our overseas sales declined in 2010 due to the loss of a key overseas sales agent, and many obstacles to entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, international trade and tariff barriers, regulatory constraints, product liability concerns, shipping and delivery costs, costs associated with marketing efforts abroad and maintaining attractive foreign exchange ratios. Moreover, our expansion strategy may be based on incorrect assumptions and may be flawed, and may even damage our performance, competitive position in the market and, ultimately, even our ability to survive in the marketplace. We cannot, therefore, assure shareholders that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our growth, future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 22 Furthermore, we may strategically enter into other segments in the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical markets, including upstream and downstream markets, such as herbal planting, which we believe are natural extensions of our vertically integrated business model. On December 21, 2010, TDR entered into an agreement with that gives us the right to grow and harvest herbs, among other plants, on approximately 74,000 acres of forested land in the Xiao Xing'an Mountain region ("the planting area") for 30 years. Although we intend to utilize the planting area to produce herbs and other ingredients for use in traditional Chinese medicines ("TCM") and various health foods, we may incur significant additional expenses and ultimately not generate sufficient revenues and profit to justify our expenditures. Our continued pursuit of these expansion plans may require significant capital expenditures going forward, which could be used in pursuit of other opportunities and investments. We may also face intense competition from companies with greater experience or established presence in any new markets we seek to enter. There are many safety risks involved in our products and services that could expose us to liability or inhibit our ability to secure insurance. Our products and services involve direct or indirect impact on human health and life. The products we manufacture and sell may be flawed and cause dangerous side effects, and even fatality in certain cases, leading to major business losses and legal and other liabilities and damages to our company. In the event that any of our products are alleged to have adverse side effects, we could be subject to product liability claims. In addition to the threat of liability, there may be insurance costs if we enter into certain markets or may not be able to obtain insurance for certain products in some countries. Some distributors may refuse to sell our products in certain countries if they perceive such products to have a high risk or to be uninsurable. We do not maintain any insurance and are exposed to all risks of loss, including resulting from product liability, property loss or damages, or other harm that we may cause to customers, vendors, suppliers and other third parties, or securities law claims. We do not maintain liability or property insurance coverage or director and officer insurance coverage and, therefore, we are self-insured for all risks of loss. Although we seek to reduce potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with distributors and suppliers, we cannot assure you that such measures will be enforced or effective. Our policy is to record losses associated with our lack of insurance coverage at such time as realized loss is incurred. Historically, we have not had any material losses in connection with our lack of insurance coverage and are not party to any material pending legal proceedings as of the date of this report. Management’s intention is to use our working capital to fund any such losses incurred due to our exposure to inadequate insurance coverage. Our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to pay significant damages or incur significant defense costs in connection with a claim. 23 We are highly dependent upon the public perception and quality of our products. Additionally, anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. The PRC government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among other things, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. Our future research and development projects may not be successful. The successful development of pharmaceutical products can be affected by many factors. Products that appear to be promising at their early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including the failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, the research and development cycle for new products for which we may obtain an approval certificate is long. The process of conducting basic research and various stages of tests and trials of a new product before obtaining an approval certificate and commercializing the product may require ten years or longer. Many of our product candidates are in the early stages of pre-clinical study and clinical trial and we must conduct significant additional clinical trials before we can seek the regulatory approvals necessary to begin commercial production and sales of these products. There is no assurance that our future research and development projects will be successful or completed within the anticipated time frame or budget or that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of these newly developed products, or that these newly-developed products will achieve commercial success. Others may obtain approval for a competitive product before the product we are developing is approved. In that case, we may be precluded from getting approval until the competitor’s monitoring period expires and realize little or no benefit from our research and development investment. Even if such products can be successfully commercialized, they may not achieve the level of market acceptance that we expect. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, constant enhancement of industrial knowhow and frequent emergence of new products. Future technological improvements and continual product developments in the pharmaceutical market may render our existing products obsolete or affect their viability and competitiveness. Therefore, our future success will largely depend on our development capability, including our ability to improve our existing products, diversify our product range and develop new and competitively-priced products that can meet the requirements of the changing market. Should we fail to respond to these frequent technological advances by improving our existing products or developing new products in a timely manner or these products do not achieve a desirable level of market acceptance, our business and profitability will be materially and adversely affected. 24 We rely on research institutions and universities in the PRC for the research and development of new products and any failure of our research partners to meet our timing and quality standards or our failure to continue such collaborative arrangement or enter into such new arrangements could adversely affect our ability to develop new pharmaceuticals and our overall business prospects. Our business strategy includes collaborating with third parties for research and development of new products. We rely on long-term cooperative relationships with a number of research institutions and universities in the PRC. These research institutions and universities have collaborated with us in a number of research projects and certain of our products that have obtained approval certificates were developed by us together with our research partners. At present, several research institutions and universities are working with us on various research and development projects. Any failure of our research partners to meet the required quality standards and timetables set in their research agreements with us, or our inability to enter into additional research agreements with these research partners on terms acceptable to us in the future, may have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new medicines and on our business prospects. In addition, the growth of our business and development of new products may require that we seek additional collaborative partners. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into agreements with collaborative partners on terms acceptable to us. Our inability to enter into such agreements or our failure to maintain such arrangements could limit the number of new products that we develop and ultimately decrease our sources of future revenue. We currently rely on third parties to supply the key raw materials we use to produce our products. Our business depends upon the availability of key raw materials. We rely on only external suppliers for these raw materials. In fiscal year 2010, Heilongjiang Kangda Medicine Company, Shenzhen Hong Yuan and Harbin Zhong Jia Medicine Company accounted for 42%, 12% and 11% of our total inventory purchases, respectively. In fiscal year 2009, Harbin Zhong Jia Medicine Company and Heilongjiang Kangda Medicine Company accounted for approximately 16% and 42% of our total inventory purchases, respectively. Heilongjiang Kangda Medicine Company accounted for approximately 33% of our total inventory purchases for the year ended December 31, 2008. For the 2011 fiscal year, we expect that our raw material suppliers will be substantially similar to last year and the amount of raw materials will increase commensurate with the increase in the demand of our products. If any of our major suppliers were to default or become unable to deliver the raw materials in sufficient quantities, we may be unable to purchase these raw materials from alternative sources on the same or similar terms, which could result in a significant decrease in our operating costs. In addition, any disruption in the supply of our raw materials could cause delay in the delivery of our products which would be harmful to our sales reputation and business. If supply is disrupted the increased amount we have to pay for raw materials could negatively impact our margins, cause us to cease production if an alternate supplier cannot be found. If we are unable to procure replacement supplies, our ability to meet the production demands of our customers could cause the loss of costumers and/or market share. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by the lost sales or decreased margins. 25 We are dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our annual revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2010, no customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2009, sales to Harbin Shiji Baolong Medicine Company and Shanxi Xintai Medicine Company accounted for approximately 16% and 11% of total revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to Shanxi Xintai and Harbin Shiji Baolong accounted for 15% and 12% of our total revenues, respectively. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if any such customer stops purchasing our products. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to contribute to a significant portion of our sales in the near future. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these top customers is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. If we fail to sell our products to one or more of these top customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, or if we fail to develop additional major customers, our revenue would likely decline and our results of operations would be adversely affected. During the third quarter of 2010, a domestic distributor, and an overseas sales agent, terminated their business relationship with us. These two customers accounted for an aggregate of 10%, 21% and 18% of our total revenue for the year 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Although we expect to replace these customers with new relationships over time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, or at all.. Significant competition from existing and new entities could adversely affect revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of which are developing and/or offering, or can be expected to develop and offer, products similar to ours. Our market is a large market with many competitors. Many of our competitors are more established than we are, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. We are subject to market and channel risks. In the 2010 fiscal year, approximately 95% of our sales were made in the PRC, where we primarily sell our products through drug chain stores. Because of this, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of our PRC-based distribution channel, as well as the success of specific retailers in the distribution channel. We rely on these distribution channels to purchase, market, and sell our products. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, on the growth and success of the drug stores, which may be outside our control. There can be no assurance that the drug store distribution channels will be able to grow or prosper as they faces price and service pressure from other channels, including the mass market. There can be no assurance that retailers in the drug store distribution channel, in the aggregate, will respond or continue to respond to our marketing commitment in these channels. 26 We may have difficulty in defending intellectual property rights from infringement. Our TCM products are generally not protected by patents but by trade secrets. Certain TCM license agreements are made on a non-exclusive basis. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. To the extent that we market products in other countries, we may have to take additional action to protect our intellectual property. The measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and we cannot provide any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or copy our products. We also rely on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, trade secrets and proprietary technologies may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. Most of our products are not patented and similar products can be manufactured and sold by other pharmaceutical manufacturers in the PRC once the relevant protection or monitoring periods, if any, elapse. Most of our products are not protected by intellectual property rights. As a result, other pharmaceutical companies may sell equivalent products at a lower cost, and this might result in a commensurate loss in sales of our branded generic products or require us to lower our prices to compete. Certain of our generic products are subject to protection during the SFDA’s monitoring period. During such period, the SFDA will not accept applications for new medicine certificates for the same product by other pharmaceutical companies or approve the production or import of the same product by other pharmaceutical companies. Once such monitoring period expires, other manufacturers may obtain relevant production approvals and will be entitled to sell generic pharmaceutical products with similar formulae or production methods in China. The maximum monitoring period currently granted by the SFDA is five years. As a result, we expect to face increased competition for our products following the expirations of their respective monitoring periods. If other pharmaceutical companies sell pharmaceutical products that are similar to our unprotected products or our protected products for which the relevant protection or monitoring period has expired, we may face additional competition and our business and profitability may be adversely affected. 27 We will be subject to risks relating to third parties that may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries with respect to the manufacturing, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to commence or defend against charges relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights. Any such litigation could involve or result in: · the incurrence of substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation; · a diversion of significant time and effort of technical and management personnel; · the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and · the payment of substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within these industries have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. These arrangements may be investigated by regulatory agencies and, if improper, may be invalidated. Also, the required licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent our company from manufacturing and selling some of our products or increase costs to market these products. In addition, when seeking regulatory approval for some of our products, we are required to certify to regulatory authorities, including the SFDA that such products do not infringe upon third party patent rights. Filing a certification against a patent gives the patent holder the right to bring a patent infringement lawsuit against us. Any lawsuit would delay regulatory approval by the SFDA. A claim of infringement and the resulting delay could result in substantial expenses and even prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. The launch of a product prior to a final court decision or the expiration of a patent held by a third party may result in substantial damages to us. Depending upon the circumstances, a court may award the patent holder damages equal to three times their loss of income. If we are found to infringe a patent held by a third party and become subject to such treble damages, these damages could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with accounting policies and regulations in making reasonable estimates and judgments could negatively impact our financial position and results of operation. We are subject to critical accounting policies and actual results may vary from estimates. We have followed, and will continue to follow, generally accepted accounting principles for the United States in preparing financial statements. As part of this work, we must make many estimates and judgments concerning future events. These affect the value of the assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses reported in such financial statements. We believe that these estimates and judgments are reasonable, and we have made them in accordance with accounting policies based on information available at the time. However, actual results could differ from estimates, and this could require us to record adjustments to expenses or revenues that could be material to our financial position and results of operations in the future. 28 Our business is subject to many governmental regulatory and policy risks. Our business must be conducted in compliance with various government regulations and in particular, the SFDA’s regulations. Government regulations may have material impact on our operations, increase costs and could prevent or delay the manufacturing and selling of our products. Research, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing activities are subject to various governmental regulations in China, including health and drug regulations. Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. We will not be able to license, manufacture, sell and distribute the vast majority of our products without a proper approval from government agencies and in particular the SFDA. This approval process is lengthy, with approvals for TCM products typically occurring 18-24 months after the application is initially filed. There is no assurance that we will obtain such approvals on a timely basis, or at all. Delays in obtaining approvals will delay our ability to market products and denial of approval for a specific product will result in our inability to market the product and recoup the expenses incurred in that products development and testing. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation during the period of product development and product assessment. Although we have, so far, obtained the rights to sell our products in the PRC, we may not continue to receive and maintain regulatory approvals for the sale of these products. Our marketing activities are also subject to government regulations with respect to the prices that it intends to charge or any other marketing and promotional related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase the costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and selling products, impacting negatively our operations, revenue, income and cash flow. There could be changes in government regulations towards the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries that may adversely affect our business. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products in the PRC is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. These regulations significantly increased the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depends to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. We received certifications for our current products. However, should we fail to maintain the GMP certifications under the new guidelines in the future, or for new products, our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions of the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries in the PRC may also change and may significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. 29 We need to manage growth in operations to maximize our potential growth and achieve our expected revenues. Our success depends on our ability to achieve continued growth. In order to maximize potential growth in current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. This expansion will place a significant strain on management and operational, accounting and information systems and will require substantial additional capital. We will need to continue to improve financial controls, operating procedures, and management information systems if and as we grow. We will also need to effectively train, motivate, and manage our employees. A failure to manage our growth could disrupt operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. International operations require our company to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We are required to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties and/or restrictions in our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We are a public reporting company, and, as such, we will incur significant costs associated with public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All of these applicable rules and regulations can be expected to increase legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. Management also expects that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 30 We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the U.S. have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of existing and new technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. We are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors for certain losses they suffer. To the fullest extent permitted by Chapter 78 of the Nevada Revised Statues, we may, if and to the extent authorized by our board of directors, indemnify our officers and any other persons who we have power to indemnify against liability, reasonable expense or other matter whatsoever. If we are required to indemnify any persons under this policy, we may have to pay indemnity in a substantial amount which we may be unable to recover at all. We are the subject of a formal SEC order of investigation which, if not favorably resolved, could have material adverse consequences to us. On September 4, 2009, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation relating to, among other things, certain of our accounting, record-keeping and disclosure practices. Between that time and the present, we have received document and testimonial subpoenas from the SEC. We have complied, and intend to continue to comply with all such subpoenas. We cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve this investigation favorably, or that we will not be materially adversely affected by this investigation or its outcome. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business will be affected by the government regulation and Chinese economic environment because most of our sales will be in the China market. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, approximately 95%, 92% and 92% of our total revenues, respectively, were from sales in the PRC. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in China is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. The SFDA requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain GMP certifications. We currently have the certifications needed for our current operations. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications in the future, we would no longer be able to manufacture pharmaceuticals in China, and our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. These regulations significantly increase the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Additionally, the law could change so as to prohibit the use of certain pharmaceuticals. If one of our products becomes prohibited, this change would cease the productivity of that product. The China National Development and Reform Commission (“CNDRC”), has recently implemented price adjustments on many marketed pharmaceutical products. We have no control over such governmental policies, which may impact the pricing and profitability of our products. 31 Although we export products to other countries, approximately 95% of our sales are in the PRC. It is anticipated that our products in the PRC will continue to represent a significant portion of sales in the near future. As a result of our reliance on the PRC markets, our operating results and financial performance could be affected by any adverse changes in economic, political and social conditions in the PRC. The modernization of regulations for the pharmaceutical industry is relatively new in the PRC, and the manner and extent to which it is regulated will continue to evolve. As a pharmaceutical company, we are subject to the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law, which governs the licensing, manufacture, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products in the PRC, and sets penalty provisions for violations of provisions of the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law. In addition as a “Foreign Owned Enterprise,” we will be subject to the Foreign Company provisions of the Company Law of the PRC. Changes in these laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant impact on our methods and our cost of doing business. For example, if legislative proposals for pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement levels, approval criteria or manufacturing requirements should be proposed and adopted, such new legislation or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by governmental agencies in China. At this time, we are unaware of any China legislative proposals that could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to compliance or non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any changes in applicable laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect us. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. 32 There are risks inherent in doing business in China. The PRC is a developing country with a young market economic system overshadowed by the state under heavy regulation and scrutiny. Its political and economic systems are very different from the more developed countries. China also faces many social, economic and political challenges that may produce major shocks and instabilities and even crises, in both its domestic arena and in its relationship with other countries, including but not limited to the United States. Such shocks, instabilities and crises may in turn significantly and adversely affect our performance. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to our company create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on our business and operations. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business. In addition, the effectiveness of newly-enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business, business prospects and operations. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Our business may be affected by unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our company, and its subsidiaries, is subject to many general regulations governing business entities and their behavior in China and in other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries have, or plan to have, operations and market products. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations covering food, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products. Such regulations typically deal with licensing, approvals and permits. Any change in product licensing may make our products more or less available on the market. Such changes may have a positive or negative impact on the sale of our products and may directly impact the associated costs in compliance and our operational and financial viability. Such regulatory environment also covers any existing or potential trade barriers in the form of import tariff and taxes that may make it difficult for us to import our products to certain countries and regions, such as Hong Kong, which would limit its international expansion. 33 A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and almost all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. According to the PRC National Bureau of Statistics, the GDP growth rate of PRC is 8.9% and 9.2% for 2008 and 2009, respectively. According to World Bank’s estimate in January 2011, the annual GDP growth rate of PRC would be 10 percent for year 2010, and will slow to 8.7% in 2011and 8.4% in 2012. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. A number of factors may cause the economy slow-down in PRC, including global economy downturn, appreciation of the RMB and continuous anti-inflation measures taken by the government, such as rising interest rates and administrative tightening of credit emissions. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, it has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products do not rise at a rate that is sufficient to fully absorb inflation-driven increases in our costs of supplies, our profitability can be adversely affected. In addition, in order to control inflation, the PRC government might impose controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of these and other similar policies may impede economic growth and thereby harm the market for our products in the future. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the political and legal developments in the PRC. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, on the economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that changes in the PRC’s economic, political or legal systems will not detrimentally affect our business, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. 34 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in the PRC against our company or our management based on U.S. or other foreign laws. Our operating subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of the PRC and substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, all of our directors, executive officers and managers reside within the PRC, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside the PRC upon certain of our directors, executive officers or managers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of judgments of a court in the United States in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against us, our directors, executive officers or managers only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and the articles of association of our operating subsidiaries, and only if the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with any such original action, a PRC court may impose civil liability, including monetary damages. We may have difficulty attracting talent in foreign countries. Currently, approximately 95% of our sales are in the PRC. We are in the process of attempting to establish marketing and sales presence in the U.S. and other countries. We expect to establish an office in the U.S. for investor relations. In the future, we may explore expanding its operations in other countries throughout the world. Upon effecting any such expansion, we may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to its lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede international expansion. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition, by making acquisitions in China or of Chinese products more expensive. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi (“RMB”), the currency of China, into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, referred to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises (“FIEs”), for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. 35 Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still subject to certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. These rules are subject to change. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Our company is a FIE to which the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations are applicable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi from approximately RMB 8.2765 per US$1.00 as of July 21, 2005 to approximately RMB 6.6118 to U.S. $1.00 as of December 31, 2010. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese RMB may materially and adversely affect cash flows, revenues and financial condition, and the ability to pay dividends. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and the ability of the PRC entities to obtain financing. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Restrictions on currency exchange imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside the PRC, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Under current PRC regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. The PRC entities may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts, subject to a cap set by SAFE, or its local counterpart, for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of the PRC entities to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from our U.S. holding company entity. 36 Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of the PRC entities or an affiliated entity to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund any business activities outside the PRC that are denominated in foreign currencies, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. We are required to be in compliance with the registered capital requirements of the PRC. Under the Company Law of the PRC, we are required to contribute a certain amount of “registered capital” to our wholly owned subsidiary. By law, our subsidiaries are required to contribute at least 10% of after tax net income (as determined in accordance with Chinese GAAP) into a statutory surplus reserve until the reserve is equal to 50% of our and our subsidiaries’ registered capital, and other surplus reserve at certain percentage of the after tax net income as determined by our board of directors, into a public welfare fund. These reserve funds are recorded as part of shareholders’ equity but are not available for distribution to shareholders other than in the case of liquidation. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $7,600,000 and $6,400,000, respectively, have been appropriated to the statutory reserves by our PRC subsidiaries. As a result of this requirement, the amount of net income available for distribution to shareholders will be limited. Dividends we receive from our subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The PRC’s Enterprise Income Tax Law (“EIT Law”) provides that an income tax rate of 10% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises.” Non-resident enterprises refer to enterprises which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. The income tax for the non-resident enterprises shall be subject to withholding at income source with the payer acting as the obligatory withholder under the EIT Law, and therefore, such income tax is generally called “withholding tax” in practice. It is currently unclear in what circumstances a source will be considered as located within the PRC. As a U.S. holding company substantially all of our income will be derived from dividends we receive from our PRC operating subsidiaries. Thus, if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law and the dividends paid to us by our PRC operating subsidiaries are considered income sourced within the PRC, such dividends may be subject to a 10% withholding tax. No dividends were paid to our U.S. holding company by our PRC operating subsidiaries in 2008, 2009 or 2010. 37 Deterioration of the PRC’s political relations with the U.S., Europe, or other nations could make Chinese businesses less attractive to Western investors. The relationship between the U.S. and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-foreign relations are difficult to predict and could materially adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or services to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations between the U.S., Europe, or other nations and the PRC could have a material adverse effect on our operations or our ability to raise additional capital. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to the PRC entities could materially increase our tax liabilities. The rate of income tax on companies in China may vary depending on the availability of preferential tax treatment or subsidies based on their industry or location. The current maximum corporate income tax rate is 33%. The new Enterprise Income Tax Law became effective as of January 1, 2008, pursuant to which, an enterprise income tax of 25% applies to any enterprise. Although we were approved by the local tax authority to be exempted from the enterprise income tax for a five-year period commencing in 2007 and ending in 2012, we do not know whether such new law will change the preferential treatment that was granted to us. Any loss or substantial reduction of the tax benefits enjoyed by us would reduce our earnings. Because PRC law governs almost all of our operating subsidiaries’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. PRC law governs almost all of the material agreements of our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The Chinese legal system is similar to a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in the PRC. Certain of our subsidiaries are wholly foreign-owned enterprises, and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than under more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, confidentiality protections in the PRC may not be as effective as in the U.S. or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with respect to financing sectors, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. 38 Under PRC laws, our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold and/or pay such individual income tax in accordance with PRC laws, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in the PRC (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. While tax authorities may advise us that our policy is compliant, they may change their policy, and we could be subject to sanctions. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in the PRC. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The enforcement of new labor contract law and its implementation rules and increase in labor costs in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. China adopted the PRC Employment Contract Law, or the new Labor Contract Law, effective January 1, 2008 and the implementation rules effective September 18, 2008. The new Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules impose more stringent obligations on employers for, among others, entering into written employment contracts, hiring temporary employees, dismissing employees, setting compensations for dismissal and protecting certain sick or disabled employees from dismissal and setting forth detailed requirements relating to the contents of the employment contracts. The implementation of the new Labor Contract Law may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the new Labor Contract Law may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 39 We are subject to environmental regulations and may be exposed to liability and potential costs for environmental compliance. We are subject to PRC laws and regulations concerning the discharge of waste water, gaseous waste and solid waste during our manufacturing processes. We are required to establish and maintain facilities to dispose of waste and report the volume of waste to the relevant government authorities, which conduct scheduled or unscheduled inspections of our facilities and treatment of such discharge. We may not at all times comply fully with environmental regulations. Any violation of these regulations may result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, revocations of operating permits, shutdown of our facilities and obligation to take corrective measures. Our cost of complying with current and future environmental protection laws and regulations and our liabilities which may potentially arise from the discharge of effluent water and solid waste may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The government may take steps towards the adoption of more stringent environmental regulations. Due to the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. If there is any unanticipated change in the environmental regulations, we may need to incur substantial capital expenditures to install, replace, upgrade or supplement our pollution control equipment or make operational changes to limit any adverse impact or potential adverse impact on the environment in order to comply with new environmental protection laws and regulations. If such costs become prohibitively expensive, we may be forced to cease certain aspects of our business operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreak of contagious disease. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 Flu, Avian Flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 Flu first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and the PRC. In the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of Avian Flu and SARS. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 Flu , Avian Flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other calamities could disrupt our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. All of our products are produced at our manufacturing facility in China. A significant disruption at our manufacturing facilities, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to timely produce and ship products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are vulnerable to interruption and damage from natural and other types of disasters, including earthquake, fire, floods, environmental accidents, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously impaired. In addition, the nature of our production and research activities could cause significant delays in our programs and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. We do not maintain any insurance other than property insurance for some of our buildings and equipments. Accordingly, unexpected business interruptions resulting from disasters could disrupt our operations and thereby result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In addition, our production process requires a continuous supply of electricity. Interruptions of electricity supply could result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and the loss of production in progress. Any major suspension or termination of electricity or other unexpected business interruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Risks Relating to the Market for Our Common Stock and our Capital Structure Our stock price is likely to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Failure to meet market expectations in our financial results could cause our stock price to decline. Moreover, factors that are not related to our operating performance could cause our stock price to decline. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for securities of technology and communications companies. Consequently, you may experience a decrease in the market value of your common stock, regardless of our operating performance or prospects. We do not plan to declare or pay any dividends to our shareholders in the near future and would need regulatory approval to do so. We have not declared any dividends in the past, and we do not intend to distribute dividends in the near future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and subject to PRC law, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. We have the right to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock, which may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of other of our securities and may deter hostile takeovers or delay changes in management control. Our articles of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series, and with such rights, preferences and designations as our board of directors may determinate from time to time. Our board of directors, without further approval of our common stockholders, is authorized to fix the dividend rights and terms, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights, liquidation preferences and other rights and restrictions relating to any series of our preferred stock. Issuances of shares of preferred stock could, among other things, adversely affect the voting power of the holders of other of our securities and may, under certain circumstances, have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in management control. Such an issuance would dilute existing stockholders, and the securities issued could have rights, preferences and designations superior to our common stock. 41 We may issue shares upon exercise of outstanding warrants which will be dilutive to the common stock. As of March 1, 2011, we had issued and outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 593,800 shares of our common stock, which are exercisable at a price of $12.50 per share. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of our outstanding warrants will reduce the percentage equity ownership of holders of shares of our common stock. Further, the exercise of a significant number of warrants, and subsequent sale of shares of common stock received upon such exercise, could cause a sharp decline in the market price of our common stock. Application of guidance related to the Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company's Own Stock has negatively impacted our statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 (restated) and could continue to negatively impact our statement of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 (restated), we reported an unrealized gain on derivatives of $8,889,000 and unrealized loss on derivatives of $4,807,000, respectively, in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income as a result of the change in fair value of derivative warrant liability relating to the outstanding warrants issued in our January 2008 private placement. Our comprehensive income will continue to fluctuate as a result of the impact of such warrants and will be adversely affected in each reporting period in which the fair value of the warrants that remain outstanding increase. Restrictions on the use of Rule 144 by Shell Companies or Former Shell Companies could affect your ability to resale our shares. Historically, the SEC has taken the position that Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as amended, is not available for the resale of securities initially issued by companies that are, or previously were, blank check companies like us, to their promoters or affiliates despite technical compliance with the requirements of Rule 144. The SEC has codified and expanded this position in its amendments effective on February 15, 2008 and apply to securities acquired both before and after that date by prohibiting the use of Rule 144 for resale of securities issued by shell companies (other than business transaction related shell companies) or issuers that have been at any time previously a shell company. The SEC has provided an important exception to this prohibition, however, if the following conditions are met: the issuer of the securities that was formerly a shell company has ceased to be a shell company; the issuer of the securities is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; the issuer of the securities has filed all Exchange Act reports and material required to be filed, as applicable, during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the issuer was required to file such reports and materials), other than Form 8-K reports; and at least one year has elapsed from the time that the issuer filed current Form 10 type information with the SEC reflecting its status as an entity that is not a shell company. As such, due to the fact that we had been a shell company prior to October 2005, holders of "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144, when resell their shares pursuant to Rule 144, shall be subject to the conditions set forth herein. 42 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this report are not statements of historical or current fact. As such, they are "forward-looking statements" based on our current expectations, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions. They include statements relating to: · future sales and financings; · the future development of our business; · our ability to execute our business strategy; · projected expenditures; and · the market for our products. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are not predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements and our prospects generally, you should carefully consider the factors set forth below. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary factors and to others contained throughout this prospectus. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this prospectus or to conform these statements to actual results. Although it is not possible to create a comprehensive list of all factors that may cause actual results to differ from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements or that may affect our future results, some of these factors are set forth under "Risk Factors" in this report. 43 Item. 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 