Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described below. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of, or that we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and operations may be adversely affected if any of such risks are realized. All investors should consider the following risk factors before deciding to purchase or sell our securities. Risks Related to Our Business Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. In 2008, general worldwide economic conditions declined due to sequential effects of the sub prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. This global economic downturn poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending, or seek new ways to eliminate spending, in response to these uncertain and challenging economic conditions. In addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects including foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, insolvency of key suppliers and customer insolvencies. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or recession or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific markets we serve. If the markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Certain officers and directors have significant control over our company. Dr. Liu Yan-qing and Ms. Han Xiao-yan, who are officers and directors of ours, also serve as officers and directors of ACPG and TDR. As of the date hereof, Dr. Liu and Ms. Han own, in the aggregate, approximately 36.7% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders are effectively able to control certain corporate governance matters requiring shareholders’ approval. Such matters may include transactions in which they have an interest other than as a shareholder of ours, the approval of significant corporate transactions such as increasing the authorized number of our shares to complete acquisitions or raise capital, if necessary, and any other transactions requiring a majority vote without seeking other shareholders’ approval. These persons also have the ability to control other matters requiring shareholder approval including our election of directors which could result in the entrenchment of management. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, Liu Yan-qing, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Han Xiao-yan, Vice Chairman, and Hao Yu-bo, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. We do not have employment agreements with these members of management. Accordingly, if any of these persons should leave the company we would have no remedy or protections in place and would not be able to prevent them from competing with us or working for competitors. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. In addition, we do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. Our expansion plan may not be successful. Part of our strategy is to grow through increasing the distribution and sales of our products by penetrating existing markets in the PRC and Hong Kong, and entering new geographic markets in the PRC as well as Asia, the United States and other countries. However, many obstacles to entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, international trade and tariff barriers, regulatory constraints, product liability concerns, shipping and delivery costs, costs associated with marketing efforts abroad and maintaining attractive foreign exchange ratios. Moreover, our expansion strategy may be based on incorrect assumptions and may be flawed, and may even damage our performance, competitive position in the market and ultimately even our ability to survive in the marketplace. Even if the strategy is correct, we may never be able to successfully implement our strategy. We cannot, therefore, assure shareholders that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on growth, future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. - 19 - - There are many safety risks involved in our products and services that could expose us to liability or inhibit our ability to secure insurance. Our products and services involve direct or indirect impact on human health and life. The drugs, products and services we manufacture and sell may be flawed and cause dangerous side effects and even fatality in certain cases, and lead to major business losses and legal and other liabilities and damages to our company. In the event that any of our products are alleged to have adverse side effects, we could be subject to product liability claims. In addition to the threat of liability, there may be insurance costs if we enter into certain markets or may not be able to obtain insurance for certain products in some countries. Some distributors may refuse to sell our products in certain countries if they perceive such products to have a high risk or to be uninsurable. We are highly dependent upon the public perception and quality of our products. Additionally, anti-corruption measures taken by the government to correct corruptive practices in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect our sales and reputation. We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. The government has recently taken anti-corruption measures to correct corrupt practices. In the pharmaceutical industry, such practices include, among others, acceptance of kickbacks, bribery or other illegal gains or benefits by the hospitals and medical practitioners from pharmaceutical distributors in connection with the prescription of a certain drug. Substantially all of our sales to our ultimate customers are conducted through third-party distributors. We have no control over our third-party distributors, who may engage in corrupt practices to promote our products. While we maintain strict anti-corruption policies applicable to our internal sales force and third-party distributors, these policies may not be effective. If any of our third-party distributors engage in such practices and the government takes enforcement action, our products may be seized and our own practices, and involvement in the distributors’ practices may be investigated. If this occurs, our sales and reputation may be materially and adversely affected. Our success will depend on our research and the ability to develop new products. Our growth depends on our ability to consistently discover, develop and commercialize new products and find new and improve on existing technologies, platforms and products. As such, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research, to be attentive to consumer needs, or fail to focus on the most advanced technologies, our current and future products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products of other companies. Significant competition from existing and new entities could adversely affect revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of which are offering and/or developing, or can be expected to develop and offer, products similar to ours. Our market is a large market with many competitors. Many of our competitors are more established than we are, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than our company. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. - 20 - - We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing, and may not be able to develop our product candidates. We may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund research and other expenditures as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. We cannot assure you that debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot or are limited in the ability to incur debt, issue equity or enter in strategic collaborations, we may be unable to fund discovery and development of our product candidates, address gaps in our product offerings or improve our technologies. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, which may include but are not limited to the following: · obtaining regulatory approval for our products and conducting research and development to successfully develop our stem cell and other technologies; · filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and assessing patents to protect our technologies; · retaining qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists; · manufacturing products ourselves or through third parties; · marketing our products, either through building our own sales and distribution capabilities or relying on third parties; and · acquiring new technologies, licenses or products. We cannot assure you that any needed financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional financing in the future, our operations may be restricted and we may ultimately be unable to continue to develop and potentially commercialize our product candidates. We are subject to market and channel risks. Over 85% of our sales are made in the PRC, where we primarily sell our products through drug chain stores. Because of this, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of our PRC based distribution channel as well as the success of specific retailers in the distribution channel. Many of the drug stores are individual stores or very small chains, and only a few are large chain drug stores. We rely on these distribution channels to purchase, market, and sell our products. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, on the growth and success of the drug stores, which may be outside our control. There can be no assurance that the drug store distribution channels will be able to grow or prosper as it faces price and service pressure from other channels, including the mass market. There can be no assurance that retailers in the drug store distribution channel, in the aggregate, will respond or continue to respond to our marketing commitment in these channels. We may have difficulty in defending intellectual property rights from infringement. Our TCM products are generally not protected by patents but by trade secrets. Certain TCM license agreements are made on a non-exclusive basis. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. We continually file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, particularly in the PRC. Some patent applications in the PRC are maintained in secrecy until the patent is issued. Because the publication of discoveries tends to follow their actual discovery by many months, we may not be the first to invent, or file patent applications on any of its discoveries. Patents may not be issued with respect to any of our patent applications and existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide competitive advantages for its products. Patents that are issued may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. Furthermore, our patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. - 21 - - To the extent that we market products in other countries, we may have to take additional action to protect our intellectual property. The measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and we cannot provide any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or copy our products. We also rely on trade secrets, non-patented proprietary expertise and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. These agreements may be breached and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Moreover, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. We will be subject to risks relating to third parties that may claim that we infringe on their proprietary rights and may prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. There has been substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries with respect to the manufacturing, use and sale of new products. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We may be required to commence or defend against charges relating to the infringement of patent or proprietary rights. Any such litigation could involve or result in: · the incurrence of substantial expense, even if we are successful in the litigation; · a diversion of significant time and effort of technical and management personnel; · the loss of our rights to develop or make certain products; and · the payment of substantial monetary damages or royalties in order to license proprietary rights from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes within these industries have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include the long-term payment of royalties. These arrangements may be investigated by regulatory agencies and, if improper, may be invalidated. Also, the required licenses may not be made available to our company on acceptable terms. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent our company from manufacturing and selling some of our products or increase costs to market these products. In addition, when seeking regulatory approval for some of our products, we are required to certify to regulatory authorities, including the SFDA that such products do not infringe upon third party patent rights. Filing a certification against a patent gives the patent holder the right to bring a patent infringement lawsuit against our company. Any lawsuit would delay regulatory approval by the SFDA. A claim of infringement and the resulting delay could result in substantial expenses and even prevent us from manufacturing and selling certain of our products. The launch of a product prior to a final court decision or the expiration of a patent held by a third party may result in substantial damages to our company. Depending upon the circumstances, a court may award the patent holder damages equal to three times their loss of income. If our company is found to infringe a patent held by a third party and become subject to such treble damages, these damages could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. - 22 - - Our failure to comply with accounting policies and regulations in making reasonable estimates and judgments could negatively impact our financial position and results of operation. We will be subject to critical accounting policies and actual results may vary from estimates. We have followed, and will continue to follow, generally accepted accounting principles for the United States in preparing financial statements. As part of this work, we must make many estimates and judgments concerning future events. These affect the value of the assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses reported in such financial statements. We believe that these estimates and judgments are reasonable, and we have made them in accordance with accounting policies based on information available at the time. However, actual results could differ from estimates, and this could require us to record adjustments to expenses or revenues that could be material to our financial position and results of operations in the future. Our business is subject to many governmental regulatory and policy risks. Our business must be conducted in compliance with various government regulations and in particular, the PRC SFDA regulations. Government regulations may have material impact on our operations, increase costs and could prevent or delay the manufacturing and selling of our products. Research, development, testing, manufacturing and marketing activities are subject to various governmental regulations in China, including health and drug regulations. Government regulations, among other things, cover the inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental considerations, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. We will not be able to license, manufacture, sell and distribute the vast majority of its products without a proper approval from government agencies and in particular the SFDA. There is no assurance that we will obtain such approvals. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in governmental policy and interpretation during the period of product development and product assessment. Although we have, so far, obtained the rights to sell our products in the PRC, we may not continue to receive and maintain regulatory approvals for the sales of these products. Our marketing activities are also subject to government regulations with respect to the prices that it intends to charge or any other marketing and promotional related activities. Government regulations may substantially increase the costs for developing, licensing, manufacturing and selling products, impacting negatively our operations, revenue, income and cash flow. For more specific risks relating to doing business in the PRC see “Risks Related to Doing Business in China” below. There could be changes in government regulations towards the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries that may adversely affect our business. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products in the PRC is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. These regulations significantly increased the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depends to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. The SFDA of China implemented new guidelines for licensing of pharmaceutical products. All existing manufacturers with licenses, which are currently valid under the previous guidelines, were required to apply for the Good Manufacturing Practices “GMP” certifications by June 30, 2004, and to receive approvals by December 31, 2004. We received certifications for our current products. However, should we fail to maintain the GMP certifications under the new guidelines in the future, or for new products, our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the laws and regulations regarding acquisitions of the pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries in the PRC may also change and may significantly impact our ability to grow through acquisitions. For more specific risks relating to doing business in the PRC see “Risks related to Doing Business in China” below. - 23 - - We need to manage growth in operations to maximize our potential growth and achieve our expected revenues. Our success depends on our ability to achieve continued growth. In order to maximize potential growth in current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand our manufacturing and marketing operations. This expansion will place a significant strain on management and operational, accounting and information systems and will require substantial additional capital. We will need to continue to improve financial controls, operating procedures, and management information systems if and as we grow. We will also need to effectively train, motivate, and manage our employees. A failure to manage our growth could disrupt operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. International operations require our company to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. We are required to comply with a number of international regulations in countries outside of the United States. In addition, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties and/or restrictions in our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Department of The Treasury’s Office of Foreign Asset Control, or OFAC, administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. As a result, we are restricted from entering into transactions with certain targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals except as permitted by OFAC which may reduce our future growth. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We are a public reporting company, and, as such, we will incur significant costs associated with public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. All of these applicable rules and regulations can be expected to increase legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. Management also expects that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our company to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of existing and new technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. - 24 - - We are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors for certain losses they suffer. To the fullest extent permitted by Chapter 78 of the Nevada Revised Statues, we may, if and to the extent authorized by our board of directors, indemnify our officers and any other persons who we have power to indemnify against liability, reasonable expense or other matter whatsoever. If we are required to indemnify any persons under this policy, we may have to pay indemnity in a substantial amount which we may be unable to recover at all. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business will be affected by the government regulation and Chinese economic environment because most of our sales will be in the China market. The manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products in China is heavily regulated by many state, provincial and local authorities. The SFDA of China requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, certifications. We currently have the certifications needed for our current operations. However, should we fail to receive or maintain the GMP certifications in the future, we would no longer be able to manufacture pharmaceuticals in China, and our businesses would be materially and adversely affected. These regulations significantly increase the difficulty and costs involved in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for marketing new and existing products. Our future growth and profitability depend to a large extent on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Additionally, the law could change so as to prohibit the use of certain pharmaceuticals. If one of our products becomes prohibited, this change would cease the productivity of that product. The China National Development and Reform Commission, or CNDRC, has recently implemented price adjustments on many marketed pharmaceutical products. We have no control over such governmental policies, which may impact the pricing and profitability of our products. Although we have started exporting products to other countries, most of our sales are in the PRC and Hong Kong. It is anticipated that our products in the PRC will continue to represent a significant portion of sales in the near future. As a result of our reliance on the PRC markets, our operating results and financial performance could be affected by any adverse changes in economic, political and social conditions in the PRC. The modernization of regulations for the pharmaceutical industry is relatively new in the PRC, and the manner and extent to which it is regulated will continue to evolve. As a pharmaceutical company, we are subject to the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law, which governs the licensing, manufacture, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products in the PRC, and sets penalty provisions for violations of provisions of the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law. In addition as a “Foreign Owned Enterprise,” we will be subject to the Foreign Company provisions of the Company Law of the PRC. Changes in these laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a significant impact our methods and our cost of doing business. For example, if legislative proposals for pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement levels, approval criteria or manufacturing requirements should be proposed and adopted, such new legislation or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by governmental agencies in China. At this time, we are unaware of any China legislative proposals that could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to compliance or non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any changes in applicable laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain political and economic considerations relating to China could adversely affect our company. China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the Chinese economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations, or the official interpretation thereof, which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. - 25 - - Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. There are risks inherent in doing business in China. The PRC is a developing country with a young market economic system overshadowed by the state under heavy regulation and scrutiny. Its political and economic systems are very different from the more developed countries. China also faces many social, economic and political challenges that may produce major shocks and instabilities and even crises, in both its domestic arena and in its relationship with other countries, including but not limited to the United States. Such shocks, instabilities and crises may in turn significantly and adversely affect our performance. The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to our company create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on our business and operations. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business, business prospects and operations. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our company and its officers and directors because they reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in the PRC and our directors and officers reside in the PRC, service of process on our company and such directors and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and any judgment obtained in the United States against our company may not be enforceable outside the United States. Our business may be affected by unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our company, and its subsidiaries, are subject to many general regulations governing business entities and their behavior in China and in other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries have, or plan to have, operations and market products. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations covering food, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products. Such regulations typically deal with licensing, approvals and permits. Any change in product licensing may make our products more or less available on the market. Such changes may have a positive or negative impact on the sale of our products and may directly impact the associated costs in compliance and our operational and financial viability. Such regulatory environment also covers any existing or potential trade barriers in the form of import tariff and taxes that may make it difficult for us to import our products to certain countries and regions, such as Hong Kong, which would limit its international expansion. - 26 - - We may have difficulty attracting talent in foreign countries. Currently, over 85% of our sales are in the PRC and in Hong Kong. We are in the process of attempting to establish marketing and sales presence in the United States and other countries. We expect to establish an office in the United States for investor relations. In the future, we may explore expanding its operations in the United States, as well as other countries throughout the world. Upon effecting any such expansion, we may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to its lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede international expansion. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition, by making acquisitions in China or of Chinese products more expensive. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, referred to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIE’s, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still subject to certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. These rules are subject to change. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Our company is a FIE to which the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations are applicable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. Since 1994, the exchange rate for RMB against the United States dollars has remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.00 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that would begin pegging the exchange rate of the Chinese RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. dollar. Currently, exchange rates are approximately RMB 1.44 to US$1.00 resulting in the increase in price of Chinese products to U.S purchasers. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese RMB may materially and adversely affect cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese RMB for operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert Chinese RMB into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Chinese RMB that we convert would be reduced. - 27 - - We are required to be in compliance with the registered capital requirements of the PRC. Under the Company Law of the PRC, our company will be required to contribute a certain amount of “registered capital” to our wholly owned subsidiary. By law, our subsidiaries are required to contribute at least 10% of after tax net income (as determined in accordance with Chinese GAAP) into a statutory surplus reserve until the reserve is equal to 50% of the Company and its subsidiaries’ registered capital, and between 5% and 10% of its after tax net income, as determined by our board of directors, into a public welfare fund. These reserve funds are recorded as part of shareholders’ equity but are not available for distribution to shareholders other than in the case of liquidation. As a result of this requirement, the amount of net income available for distribution to shareholders will be limited. Since most of our assets are located in the PRC, any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant PRC government agencies. We are not likely to declare dividends in the near future and would need regulatory approval to do so. Because our assets are predominantly located inside the PRC, we will be subject to the law of the PRC in determining dividends. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in the PRC, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for investors in case of dividend payment and liquidation. Risks Relating to the Market for Our Common Stock Our stock price is likely to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Failure to meet market expectations in our financial results could cause our stock price to decline. Moreover, factors that are not related to our operating performance could cause our stock price to decline. The stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for securities of technology and communications companies. Consequently, you may experience a decrease in the market value of your common stock, regardless of our operating performance or prospects. We do not plan to declare or pay any dividends to our shareholders in the near future and would need regulatory approval to do so. We have not declared any dividends in the past, and we do not intend to distribute dividends in the near future. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and subject to PRC law, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors as the board of directors considers relevant. There is no assurance that future dividends will be paid, and if dividends are paid, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. We have the right to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock, which may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of other of our securities and may deter hostile takeovers or delay changes in management control. Our articles of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series, and with such rights, preferences and designations as our board of directors may determinate from time to time. Our board of directors, without further approval of our common stockholders, is authorized to fix the dividend rights and terms, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights, liquidation preferences and other rights and restrictions relating to any series of our preferred stock. Issuances of shares of preferred stock could, among other things, adversely affect the voting power of the holders of other of our securities and may, under certain circumstances, have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in management control. Such an issuance would dilute existing stockholders, and the securities issued could have rights, preferences and designations superior to our Common Stock. - 28 - - Sales of our common stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, we may issue shares upon exercise of outstanding warrants and stock options that are exercisable at prices that are below current market prices which will be dilutive to the common stock. As of March 31, 2009, we had 16,446,467 shares of common stock outstanding, many of which are freely transferable under Rule 144. The sale of these shares may have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. In addition, we currently have issued and outstanding warrants and stock options to purchase an aggregate of 1,013,500 shares of our common stock, of which (i) 750,000 are exercisable at a price of $12.50 per share; (ii) 150,000 are exercisable at a price of $2.00 per share; and (iii) 113,500 are exercisable at a price of $3.65 per share. All of these warrants are also exercisable on a “cashless” basis under certain circumstances. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of our outstanding warrants will substantially reduce the percentage equity ownership of holders of shares of our common stock. Further, the exercise of a significant number of warrants, and subsequent sale of shares of common stock received upon such exercise, could cause a sharp decline in the market price of our common stock. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained in this prospectus are not statements of historical or current fact. As such, they are "forward-looking statements" based on our current expectations, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions. They include statements relating to: · future sales and financings; · the future development of our business; · our ability to execute our business strategy; · projected expenditures; and · the market for our products. You can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "intends," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are not predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. In evaluating these statements and our prospects generally, you should carefully consider the factors set forth below. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary factors and to others contained throughout this prospectus. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this prospectus or to conform these statements to actual results. Although it is not possible to create a comprehensive list of all factors that may cause actual results to differ from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements or that may affect our future results, some of these factors are set forth under "Risk Factors" in this report and in our periodic filings made with the SEC. - 29 - - Item. 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 