ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties materialize, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in the Company’s other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other disclosed risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. 5 Table of Contents We face significant competition in our industry. The markets that we serve are very competitive. We compete against a diverse group of retailers ranging from specialty stores to department stores and discounters. Our product offerings compete with such retailers as Bed Bath & Beyond, Target, Linens n’ Things, Crate & Barrel, Pottery Barn, Michaels Stores, Pier 1 Imports, Trader Joe’s and Williams-Sonoma. We compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations and qualified management personnel. Some of our competitors have greater resources, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, distribution, and marketing. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing and advertising expenditures, or increase the use of discounting or promotional campaigns, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. Our business is highly seasonal, and our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern associated with the retail industry of peak sales and earnings during the Holiday season. Due to the importance of the Holiday selling season, the fourth quarter of each fiscal year has historically contributed, and we expect will continue to contribute, a large percentage of our net sales and much of our net income for the entire fiscal year. Any factors that have a negative effect on our business during the Holiday selling season in any year, including unfavorable economic conditions, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We generally experience lower sales and earnings during the first three quarters and, as is typical in the retail industry, may incur losses in these quarters. The results of our operations for these interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for our full fiscal year. We also must make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. If the demand for our merchandise is significantly different than we have projected, it would harm our business and operating results, either as a result of lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower gross margin due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Our quarterly operating results may also fluctuate based on such factors as: • delays in the flow of merchandise to our stores; • the number and timing of new store openings and related store pre-opening expenses; • the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores; • the mix of products sold; • the timing and level of markdowns; • store closings or relocations; • competitive factors; • changes in fuel and other shipping costs; • general economic conditions; • foreign exchange rates; • labor market fluctuations; • the impact of terrorist activities; • our ability to acquire merchandise and manage inventory levels; • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; 6 Table of Contents • changes in accounting rules and regulations; and • unseasonable weather conditions. These fluctuations may also cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the overall level of consumer spending. As a retail business our success depends to a significant extent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Among the factors that affect consumer spending are the general state of the economy, credit and financial markets, the level of consumer debt, prevailing interest rates and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. A substantial number of our stores are located in the western United States, especially in California. Lower levels of consumer spending in this region could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for our merchandise, may limit our ability to increase prices and may require us to incur higher selling and promotional expenses, which in turn would harm our business and operating results. The occurrence or the threat of international conflicts or terrorist activities could harm our business and result in business interruptions. A significant portion of the merchandise that we sell is purchased in other countries and must be shipped to the United States, transported from the port of entry to our distribution centers in California or Virginia and distributed to our stores from the distribution centers. The precise timing and coordination of these activities is crucial to our business. The occurrence or threat of international conflicts or terrorist activities and the responses to those developments, for example, the temporary shutdown of a port that we use, could have a significant impact upon our business, our personnel and facilities, our customers and suppliers, the retail and financial markets and general economic conditions. Our business and operating results are sensitive to changes in energy and transportation costs. We incur significant costs for the transportation of goods from foreign ports to our distribution centers and stores and for utility services in our stores, distribution centers and corporate offices. We continually negotiate pricing for certain transportation contracts and, in a period of rising fuel costs such as we have recently experienced, we expect that our vendors for these services will increase their rates to compensate for the higher energy costs. We may not be able to pass a portion of these increased costs on to our customers and remain competitively priced. We must continue to increase sales from existing stores and open new stores to carry out our growth strategy. Our ability to increase our sales and earnings depends in part on our ability to continue to open new stores and to operate these stores on a profitable basis. Our continued growth also depends on our ability to increase sales in our existing stores. We opened a net of 11 stores in fiscal 2007 and presently plan on closing 18 stores and opening 17 new stores in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2008, the Company plans to focus on opening stores in existing markets. When we open additional stores in existing markets, it can result in lower sales from existing stores in that market. The success of our planned store openings will depend upon many factors, including the following: • our ability to identify suitable markets for expansion, • the selection, availability and leasing of suitable sites on acceptable terms, • the hiring, training and retention of qualified management and other store personnel, • satisfaction of regulatory requirements in new markets, including alcoholic beverage regulations, 7 Table of Contents • control of costs associated with entering new markets, including advertising and distribution costs; and • our ability to maintain adequate systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. We cannot assure that we will be able to achieve our planned store openings, integrate new stores effectively into our existing operations or operate our new stores profitably. Our operating results will be harmed if we are unable to improve our comparable store sales. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores. Our comparable store sales, which are defined as sales by stores that have completed 14 full fiscal months of sales, fluctuate from year to year. Fiscal 2006 was 53 weeks; therefore, to ensure a meaningful comparison, comparable store sales for fiscal 2006 were measured on a 53-week basis. In all other years presented, comparable store sales were measured on a 52-week basis. In fiscal 2007, comparable store sales decreased by 5.4% from fiscal 2006. Various factors affect comparable store sales, including: • the general retail sales environment, • our ability to source and distribute products efficiently, • changes in our merchandise mix, • competition, • current economic conditions, • the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, • the success of marketing programs, and • weather conditions. These factors and others may cause our comparable store sales to differ significantly from prior periods and from expectations. If we fail to meet the comparable store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods, the price of our common stock could decline. We face a number of risks because we import much of our merchandise. We import a significant amount of our merchandise from over 50 countries and numerous suppliers. We have no long-term contracts with our suppliers but instead rely on long-term relationships that we have established with many of these suppliers. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to maintain our relationships with our suppliers or to develop new ones. As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad such as the following: • foreign governmental regulations, • economic disruptions, • delays in shipments, • freight cost increases, • changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products, and • the effect of trade regulation by the United States, including quotas, duties and taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported merchandise. If these factors or others made the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional quotas, duties taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed by the United States on the importation of our products, our business and operating results would be harmed. 8 Table of Contents Interruption of the supply chain and/or ability to obtain products from suppliers. The products we sell are procured from a wide variety of domestic and foreign suppliers and are distributed to our stores through distribution facilities in Stockton, California and Windsor, Virginia, as well as direct store delivery. Any significant interruption in our ability to source the products and the efficiency of distributing such products to our stores, would harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to forecast customer preferences accurately in our merchandise selections. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that appeals to their preferences. Our strategy requires our merchandising staff to introduce products from around the world that meet current customer preferences and that are affordable, distinctive in quality and design and that are not widely available from other retailers. Many of our products require long order lead times. In addition, a large percentage of our merchandise changes regularly. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer trends could cause excess inventories and higher markdowns or a shortage of products and could harm our business and operating results. We rely on various key management personnel to ensure our success. Our success will continue to depend on our key management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and operating results. We do not maintain any key man life insurance policies. We have significant indebtedness. We have significant debt and may incur substantial additional debt in the future. A significant portion of our future cash flow from operating activities is likely to remain dedicated to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on our indebtedness. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or if we fail to comply with our debt covenants, we would be in default and the lenders would have the right to accelerate full payment of the loans. In such event, we might not have sufficient cash resources to repay the lenders and we might not be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and competition; and to react in the event of an economic downturn. Our common stock may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is affected by factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, a downturn in the retail industry, changes in interest rates, changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts regarding our company, other retail companies or the retail industry in general, and general market and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market can experience price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Impact of natural disasters. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, including earthquakes (particularly in California where our Stockton distribution center is located and approximately 28.5 percent of our sales were generated in fiscal 2007) could result in the disruption in the supply of our products and distribution of products to our stores, damage to and the temporary closure of one or more stores and interruption in our labor staffing. These, and other potential outcomes of a natural disaster, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Our business is subject to product recalls in the event of contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or damage to our products. We cannot assure you that product-liability claims will not be asserted against us or that we will not be obligated to recall our products in the future. A product-liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies against the United States dollar. We have significant purchase obligations with suppliers outside of the United States. During fiscal 2007, approximately 3.7% of these purchases were settled in currencies other than the United States dollar, compared to approximately 3.0% of purchases in fiscal 2006. Fluctuations in the rates of exchange between the dollar and other currencies could harm our operating results. We have not hedged our currency risk in the past and do not currently anticipate doing so in the future. Provisions in our charter documents as well as our shareholders’ rights plan could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the shareholders. In addition, the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors has been eliminated. These provisions may make it more difficult for shareholders to take certain corporate actions and could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a preferred share purchase rights agreement. Pursuant to the rights agreement, our board of directors declared a dividend of one right to purchase one one-thousandth share of our Series A Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding share of our common stock. These rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our Company, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. The rights agreement could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Lawsuits and other claims against our Company may adversely affect our operating results. We are involved in litigation, claims and assessments incidental to our business, the disposition of which is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions related to these matters. We accrue our best estimate of the probable cost for the resolution of claims. When appropriate, such estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel handling the matters and are based upon a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. To the extent additional information arises or our strategies change, it is possible that our best estimate of our probable liability may change. Changes to estimates related to the Company’s property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than its current estimates at certain store locations, may cause the Company to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets. The Company makes certain estimates and projections with regards to individual store operations in connection with its impairment analyses for long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future 10 Table of Contents operating results. If actual results differ from the Company’s estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the market price of our stock. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 