ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the Company’s other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties materialize, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in the Company’s other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other disclosed risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We have a history of negative cash flows and losses in recent years. Prior to achieving net income in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, we incurred net losses in each annual period since fiscal 2006. As of January 28, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $78.1 million. For fiscal 2009, we did not generate positive cash flows from operating activities. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to be profitable or will generate sufficient cash to fund operations in the future or that additional losses and negative cash flows from operations will not be incurred, particularly on a quarterly basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are dependent upon our asset-based credit facility to fund operations and seasonal inventory purchases throughout the year. Access to our asset-based credit facility is dependent upon meeting our debt covenants and not exceeding the borrowing limit of the asset-based credit facility. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain positive cash flows, particularly on a quarterly basis, from operations or profitability. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and future operations may need to be scaled back or discontinued. However, based on our current business plan and revenue projections, we believe that our existing cash balance, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available asset-based credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. An overall decline in the health of the global economic environment and its impact on consumer confidence and spending could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The global economic environment deteriorated substantially in recent years with declining values in real estate, reduced lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions, increased unemployment levels and significant declines and volatility in the global financial markets, which negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. If the economy deteriorates or slides back into a recession, there may be a negative impact on the Company’s financial results. We may incur significant indebtedness in the future. We may incur substantial debt in the future. A significant portion of our future cash flow from operating activities is likely to remain dedicated to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on our future indebtedness. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or if we fail to comply with our debt covenants, we would be in default and the lenders would have the right to accelerate full payment of the loans. In 6 Table of Contents such event, we might not have sufficient cash resources to repay the lenders and we might not be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our future indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and competition; and to react in the event of an economic downturn. Our lender has liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose in the event that we default under our credit facility. Under the terms of our asset-based credit facility, our lender has a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets, including our cash and inventory balances. If we default under the asset-based credit facility, our lender would be entitled to, among other things, foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit facility. If we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The retail business is highly competitive. In the past, we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service and marketing efforts. We compete against a diverse group of retailers ranging from specialty stores to department stores and discounters. Our product offerings compete with such retailers as Bed Bath & Beyond, Crate & Barrel, Ethan Allen Interiors, Haverty Furniture, Jo-Ann Stores, Kirkland’s, Michaels Stores, Pier 1 Imports, Pottery Barn, Target, Trader Joe’s, Tuesday Morning, and Williams-Sonoma. We compete with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations and qualified management personnel. Some of our competitors have greater resources, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, distribution, and marketing. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause us to lose market share, which may require us to lower prices, increase marketing and advertising expenditures, or increase the use of discounting or promotional campaigns, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability. Our business is highly seasonal, and our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern associated with the retail industry of peak sales and earnings during the Holiday season. Due to the importance of the Holiday selling season, the fourth quarter of each fiscal year has historically contributed, and we expect will continue to contribute, a large percentage of our net sales and substantially all of our net income, if any, for the entire fiscal year. Any factors that have a negative effect on our business during the Holiday selling season in any year, including unfavorable economic conditions, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We generally experience lower sales and earnings during the first three quarters and, as is typical in the retail industry, may incur losses in these quarters. The results of our operations for these interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for our full fiscal year. We also must make decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. If the demand for our merchandise is significantly different than we have projected, it could harm our business and operating results, either as a result of lost sales due to insufficient inventory or lower gross margin due to the need to mark down excess inventory. Our quarterly operating results may also fluctuate based on the factors set forth in this Risk Factors section, as well as such factors as: • delays in the flow of merchandise to our stores; 7 Table of Contents • the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores; • the mix of products sold; • the timing and level of markdowns; • store closings or relocations; • competitive factors; • changes in our operating expenses; • changes in fuel and other shipping costs; • general economic conditions; • foreign exchange rates; • labor market fluctuations; • the impact of terrorist activities; • our ability to acquire merchandise and manage inventory levels; • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers, and satisfy our customers’ demands; • changes in accounting rules and regulations; • natural disasters; and • unseasonable weather conditions. These fluctuations may also cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the overall level of consumer spending. As a retail business, our success depends to a significant extent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Among the factors that affect consumer spending are the general state of the economy, credit and financial markets, employment and salary levels, the level of consumer debt, prevailing interest rates and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. A substantial number of our stores are located in the western United States, especially in California. Lower levels of consumer spending in this region could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for our merchandise, may limit our ability to increase prices and may require us to incur higher selling and promotional expenses, which in turn would harm our business and operating results. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government and industry enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, or are perceived as violating regulations relating to personal information and privacy, we could be exposed to government and industry enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products, or stop shopping at our stores altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We are currently involved in litigation regarding our use of personal information (zip codes), the disposition of which is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. Please refer to the risk factor below entitled “Lawsuits and other claims against our Company may adversely affect our operating results.” 8 Table of Contents The occurrence or the threat of international conflicts or terrorist activities could harm our business and result in business interruptions. A significant portion of the merchandise that we sell is purchased in other countries and must be shipped to the United States, transported from the port of entry to our distribution centers in California or Virginia and distributed to our stores from the distribution centers. The precise timing and coordination of these activities is crucial to our business. The occurrence or threat of international conflicts or terrorist activities and the responses to those developments, for example, the temporary shutdown of a port that we use, could have a significant impact upon our business, our personnel and facilities, our customers and suppliers, the retail and financial markets and general economic conditions. Our business and operating results are sensitive to changes in energy and transportation costs. We incur significant costs for the transportation of goods from foreign ports to our distribution centers and stores and for utility services in our stores, distribution centers and corporate offices. We continually negotiate pricing for certain transportation contracts and, in a period of volatile fuel costs such as we have recently experienced, we expect that our vendors for these services will increase their rates to compensate for any possible increases in energy costs. We may not be able to pass a portion of these increased costs on to our customers and remain competitively priced. Our operating results will be harmed if we are unable to meet our gross margin and comparable store sales expectations. Our results depend, in part, on our ability to continue to improve our gross margin and improve sales at our existing stores. Our gross margin increased from 26.4% in fiscal 2009 to 31.7% in fiscal 2010 to 32.1% in fiscal 2011. Our comparable store sales, which are defined as sales by stores that have completed 14 full fiscal months of sales, fluctuate from year to year. In fiscal 2011, comparable store sales increased by 5.4% from fiscal 2010, and fiscal 2010 sales increased by 7.2% from fiscal 2009. Various factors affect both gross margin and comparable store sales, including: • the general retail sales environment, • our ability to source and distribute products efficiently, • changes in our merchandise mix, • competition, • current economic conditions, • the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, • the success of marketing programs, and • weather conditions. These factors and others may cause our gross margin and comparable store sales to differ significantly from prior periods and from expectations. If we fail to meet the gross margin and comparable store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods, the price of our common stock could decline. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to operate in desirable locations at reasonable rental rates and to close underperforming stores at or before the conclusion of their lease terms. The profitability of the business is dependent on operating the current store base at a reasonable profit, opening and operating new stores at a reasonable profit, and identifying and closing underperforming stores. For a majority of the Company’s current store base, a large portion of a stores’ operating expense is the cost 9 Table of Contents associated with leasing the location. Management actively monitors individual store performance and attempts to negotiate rent reductions to ensure stores can remain profitable or have the ability to rebound to a profitable state. Current locations may not continue to be desirable as demographics change, and the Company may choose to close an underperforming store before its lease expires and incur lease termination costs associated with that closing. The Company cannot give assurance that opening new stores or an increase in closings will result in greater profits. We face a number of risks because we import much of our merchandise. We import a significant amount of our merchandise from over 50 countries and numerous suppliers. We have no long-term contracts with our suppliers but instead rely on long-term relationships that we have established with many of these suppliers. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to maintain our relationships with our suppliers or to develop new ones. As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad such as the following: • foreign governmental regulations, • economic disruptions, • strikes, • delays in shipments, • freight cost increases, • changes in weather or natural disasters, • changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products, and • the effect of trade regulation by the United States, including quotas, duties and taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported merchandise. If these factors or others made the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed by the United States on the importation of our products, our business and operating results would be harmed. Interruption of the supply chain and/or ability to obtain products from suppliers. The products we sell are procured from a wide variety of domestic and foreign suppliers and are distributed to our stores through distribution facilities in Stockton, California and Windsor, Virginia, as well as direct store delivery. Any significant interruption in our ability to source the products and the efficiency of distributing such products to our stores would harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to forecast customer preferences accurately in our merchandise selections. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that appeals to their preferences. Our strategy requires our merchandising staff to introduce products from around the world that meet current customer preferences and that are affordable, distinctive in quality and design and that are not widely available from other retailers. Many of our products require long order lead times. In addition, a large percentage of our merchandise changes regularly. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer trends could cause excess inventories and higher markdowns or a shortage of products and could harm our business and operating results. Failure to successfully manage and execute the Company’s marketing initiatives could have a negative impact on the business. The success and growth of the Company is partially dependent on generating customer traffic in order to gain sales momentum in its stores. Successful marketing efforts require the ability to reach customers through 10 Table of Contents their desired mode of communication utilizing various media outlets. Some media placement decisions are generally made months in advance of the scheduled release date although new electronic and online media tools provide for some short-term flexibility. The Company’s inability to accurately predict its consumers’ preferences, to utilize the desired mode of communication, or to ensure availability of advertised products may negatively impact the business and operating results. If we are unable to effectively manage our direct-to-consumer business, our reputation and operating results may be harmed. Direct-to-consumer has been a growing business over the last several years and represented approximately 3% of net sales in fiscal 2011 and 2% of net sales in fiscal 2010. The success of our direct-to-consumer business depends, in part, on factors over which we have limited control. We must successfully respond to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to direct-to-consumer usage. We are also vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with our direct-to-consumer website, including: changes in required technology interfaces; website downtime and other technical failures; costs and technical issues as we upgrade our website software; computer viruses; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; security breaches; and consumer privacy concerns. In addition, we must keep up to date with competitive technology trends, including the use of improved technology, creative user interfaces and other Internet marketing tools such as paid search, which may increase our costs and which may not succeed in increasing sales or attracting customers. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales in our direct-to-consumer business, as well as damage our reputation and brand. We rely on various key management personnel to ensure our success. Our success will continue to depend on our key management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and operating results. We do not maintain any key man life insurance policies. We are subject to laws and regulatory requirements in many jurisdictions. Changes in these laws and requirements may result in additional costs, including the costs of compliance as well as potential penalties for non-compliance. We are subject to laws and regulatory requirements in many jurisdictions. Developments in these areas, in addition to possible government penalties and litigation in the event of deemed noncompliance, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our common stock has been and may be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is affected by factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, a downturn in the retail industry, changes in interest rates, changes in financial estimates by us or securities analysts and recommendations by securities analysts regarding our Company, other retail companies or the retail industry in general, general market and economic conditions, as well as other factors set forth in this Risk Factors section. In addition, the stock market can experience price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Impact of natural disasters. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, including earthquakes (particularly in California where our Stockton distribution center is located and approximately 28% of our sales were generated in fiscal 2011) could result in the disruption in the supply of our products and distribution of products to our stores, damage to and the temporary closure of one or more stores and interruption in our labor staffing. These, and other potential outcomes of a natural disaster, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Our business is subject to product recalls in the event of contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or damage to our products. We cannot assure you that product-liability claims will not be asserted against us or that we will not be obligated to recall our products in the future. A product-liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies against the United States dollar. We have significant purchase obligations with suppliers outside of the United States. During fiscal 2011, approximately 6% of these purchases were settled in currencies other than the United States dollar. Fluctuations in the rates of exchange between the dollar and other currencies could harm our operating results. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the shareholders. In addition, the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors has been eliminated. These provisions may make it more difficult for shareholders to take certain corporate actions and could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Lawsuits and other claims against our Company may adversely affect our operating results. We are involved in litigation, claims and assessments incidental to our business, the disposition of which is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions related to these matters. While outcomes of such actions vary, any claims or regulatory actions initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, could result in expensive costs of defense, costly damage awards, injunctive relief, increased costs of business, fines or orders to change certain business practices, significant dedication of management time, diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. The Company’s policy is to accrue our best estimate of the probable cost for the resolution of claims. When appropriate, such estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel handling the matters and are based upon a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. To the extent additional information arises or our strategies change, it is possible that our best estimate of our probable liability may change. Changes to estimates related to the Company’s property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than its current estimates at certain store locations, may cause the Company to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets. The Company makes certain estimates and projections with regards to individual store operations in connection with its impairment analyses for long-lived assets. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from the Company’s estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the market price of our stock. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will have been detected. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Failure on our part to have effective internal financial and accounting controls could cause our financial reporting to be unreliable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Disruptions to our information systems, or our failure to adequately support, maintain and upgrade these systems, could negatively impact our results of operations. We depend on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of our business. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively process transactions, manage inventory, purchase and sell goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. Disruptions to our information systems, or our failure to adequately support, maintain and upgrade these systems could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. Our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors. Changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, the ability to apply our federal net operating loss carry forward against future taxable income or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing accounting rules or regulations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 