Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS/CAUTIONARY STATEMENT AND RISK FACTORS This report contains “forward-looking statements” – meaning, statements related to future, not past, events within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this document which addresses activities, events or developments which we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “intends,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “estimates,” “predicts” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. This report modifies and supersedes documents filed by us before this report. In addition, certain information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this report. These forward-looking statements include, among others, such things as: • the amount and nature of our future capital expenditures and how we expect to fund our capital expenditures; • the amount of wells we plan to drill or rework; • prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas; • demand for oil and natural gas; • our exploration and drilling prospects; • the estimates of our proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves; • oil, NGLs and natural gas reserve potential; • development and infill drilling potential; • expansion and other development trends of the oil and natural gas industry; • our business strategy; • production of oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves; • the number of gathering systems and processing plants we plan to construct or acquire; • volumes and prices for natural gas gathered and processed; • expansion and growth of our business and operations; • demand for our drilling rigs and drilling rig rates; • our belief that the final outcome of our legal proceedings will not materially affect our financial results; • our ability to timely secure third party services used in completing our wells; • our ability to transport or convey our oil or natural gas production to established pipeline systems; and • federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydrocarbon fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affecting our business. These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by us in light of our experience and our perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. However, whether actual results and developments will conform to our expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, including: • the risk factors discussed in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference; 25 Table of Contents • general economic, market or business conditions; • the availability of and nature or lack of business opportunities that we pursue; • demand for our land drilling services; • changes in laws or regulations; • decreases or increases in commodity prices; and • other factors, most of which are beyond our control. You should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we disclaim any current intention to update forward-looking information and to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In order to help provide you with a more thorough understanding of the possible effects of some of these influences on any forward-looking statements made by us, the following discussion outlines some (but not all) of the factors that could in the future cause our 2012 and following consolidated results to differ materially from those that may be presented in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Drilling Customer Demand. With the exception of the drilling we do for our own account, the demand for our drilling services depends entirely on the needs of third parties. Based on past history, these parties’ requirements are subject to a number of factors, independent of any subjective factors that directly impact the demand for our drilling rigs, including the availability of funds to carry out their drilling operations. For many of these parties, even if they have available funds, their decision to spend those funds is often based on the then current price for oil, NGLs and natural gas. Other factors that affect our ability to work our drilling rigs are: the weather which, under certain circumstances, can delay or even cause the abandonment of a project by an operator; the competition we face in securing the award of drilling contracts; our lack of prior history in and recognition in a new market area; and the availability of labor to operate our drilling rigs. Oil, NGLs and Natural Gas Prices. The prices we receive for our oil, NGLs and natural gas production have a direct impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flow as well as our ability to meet our projected financial and operational goals. The prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas are determined on a number of factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for and supply of oil, NGLs and natural gas; • current weather conditions in the continental United States (which can greatly influence the demand and prices for natural gas at any given time); • the amount and timing of liquid natural gas imports and exports; and • the ability of current distribution systems in the United States to effectively meet the demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas at any given time, particularly in times of peak demand which may result because of adverse weather conditions. Oil prices are extremely sensitive to foreign influences based on political, social or economic underpinnings, any one of which could have an immediate and significant effect on the price and supply of oil. In addition, prices of oil, NGLs and natural gas have been at various times influenced by trading on the commodities markets. That trading, at times, has tended to increase the volatility associated with these prices resulting in large differences in prices even on a week-to-week and month-to-month basis. All of these factors, especially when coupled with the fact that much of our product prices are determined on a daily basis, can, and at times do, lead to wide fluctuations in the prices we receive. 26 Table of Contents Based on our 2011 production, a $0.10 per Mcf change in what we receive for our natural gas production, without the effect of hedging, would result in a corresponding $356,000 per month ($4.3 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow. A $1.00 per barrel change in our oil price, without the effect of hedging, would have a $196,000 per month ($2.4 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow and a $1.00 per barrel change in our NGLs price, without the effect of hedging, would have a $175,000 per month ($2.1 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow. During 2011, substantially all of our oil, NGLs and natural gas volumes were sold at market responsive prices. To help manage our cash flow and capital expenditure requirements, we hedged approximately 58%, 18% and 66% of our 2011 average daily production for oil, NGLs and natural gas, respectively. In order to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil, NGLs and natural gas, we sometimes enter into hedging arrangements such as swaps and collars. To date, we have hedged part, but not all of our production which only provides price protection against declines in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices on the production subject to our hedges, but not otherwise. Should market prices for the production we have hedged exceed the prices due under our hedges, our hedging arrangements then expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of those increases in market prices. A more thorough discussion of our hedging arrangements is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report contained in Item 7. Uncertainty of Oil, NGLs and Natural Gas Reserves; Ceiling Test. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The oil, NGLs and natural gas reserve information included in this report represents only an estimate of these reserves. Oil, NGLs and natural gas reservoir engineering is a subjective and an inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, NGLs and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions concerning: • reservoir size; • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices; • future operating costs; • severance and excise taxes; • development costs; and • workover and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil, NGLs and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, oil, NGLs and natural gas reserve estimates may be subject to periodic downward or upward adjustments. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves will likely vary from estimates, and those variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report is not necessarily the current market value of the estimated oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. Starting December 31, 2009, companies like us that use full cost accounting moved from using the commodity prices existing on the last day of the period to that of the unweighted arithmetic average of the commodity prices existing on the first day of each of the 12 months before the end of the reporting period to calculate discounted 27 Table of Contents future revenues, unless prices were otherwise determined under contractual arrangements. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows are also affected, in part, by the following factors: • the amount and timing of oil, NGLs and natural gas production; • supply and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas; • increases or decreases in consumption; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, required by the SEC for use in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from those proved reserves, discounted at 10%. As of December 31, 2011, application of this “ceiling test” generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated 12-month average price and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if we exceed the ceiling, even if prices are depressed for only a short period of time. Before 2009, the price was based on the single-day period-end price. The revision to the 12-month average price was made to reduce the affect of short-term volatility and seasonality that previously occurred with single-day pricing. Using the 12-month average may or may not result in write-downs that would have been required had the single-day period-end price been used. We may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings but would not impact our cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible. As a result of these ceiling test rules, we recorded a non-cash ceiling test write down of $281.2 million pre-tax ($175.1 million, net of tax) during the quarter ended March 31, 2009. No ceiling test write down was necessary during 2010 or 2011. We are continually identifying and evaluating opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions that would be significantly larger than those we have consummated to date. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any acquisition, that we will be able to acquire producing oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that any acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. Debt and Bank Borrowing. We have incurred and currently expect to continue to incur substantial working capital expenditures because of the growth in our operations. Historically, we have funded our working capital needs through a combination of internally generated cash flow and borrowings under our bank credit agreement. In 2011 we issued $250.0 million of senior subordinated notes (the Notes). We have also, from time to time, obtained funds through equity financing. We currently have, and will continue to have, a certain amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, our outstanding long-term debt under our credit agreement was $50.0 million and the amount of the Notes was $250.0 million. Depending on the amount of our debt, the cash flow needed to satisfy that debt and the covenants contained in our bank credit agreement and those applicable to the Notes could: • limit funds otherwise available for financing our capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; 28 Table of Contents • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less indebted than we are; • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil, NGLs and natural gas prices or in the event of a downturn in our business; and • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities. Our ability to meet our debt obligations depends on our future performance. If the requirements of our indebtedness are not satisfied, a default could be deemed to occur and our lenders or the holders of the Notes would be entitled to accelerate the payment of the outstanding indebtedness. If that were to occur, we would not have sufficient funds available and probably would not be able to obtain the financing required to meet our obligations. The amount of our existing debt, as well as our future debt, if any, is, to a large extent, based on the costs associated with the projects we undertake at any given time and of our cash flow. Generally, our normal operating costs are those resulting from the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, the acquisition of producing properties, the costs associated with the maintenance, upgrade or expansion of our drilling rig fleet, and the operations of our natural gas buying, selling, gathering, processing and treating systems. To some extent, these costs, particularly the first two are discretionary and we maintain a degree of control regarding the timing or the need to incur them. But, in some cases, unforeseen circumstances may arise, such as in the case of an unanticipated opportunity to make a large acquisition or the need to replace a costly drilling rig component due to an unexpected loss, which could force us to incur additional debt above that which we had expected or forecasted. Likewise, if our cash flow should prove to be insufficient to cover our current cash requirements we would need to increase our debt either through bank borrowings or otherwise. 29 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS There are many other factors that could adversely affect our business. The following discussion describes the material risks currently known to us. However, additional risks that we do not know about or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect the value of our securities. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this report. If demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas is reduced, our ability to market as well as produce our oil, NGLs and natural gas may be negatively affected. Historically, oil, NGLs and gas prices have been extremely volatile, with significant increases and significant price drops being experienced from time to time. In the future, various factors beyond our control will have a significant effect on oil, NGLs and gas prices. Such factors include, among other things, the domestic and foreign supply of oil, NGLs and gas, the price of foreign imports, the levels of consumer demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the availability of pipeline capacity and changes in existing and proposed federal regulation and price controls. The natural gas market is also unsettled due to a number of factors. At times in the past, production from natural gas wells in some geographic areas of the United States was curtailed for considerable periods of time due to a lack of market demand. When demand for natural gas increased the number of wells being shut-in for lack of demand was reduced. It is possible, however, that some of our wells may in the future be shut-in or that natural gas will be sold on terms less favorable than might otherwise be obtained should demand for gas remain depressed. Competition for available markets has been vigorous and there remains great uncertainty about prices that purchasers will pay. Natural gas surpluses could result in our inability to market natural gas profitably, causing us to curtail production and/or receive lower prices for our natural gas, situations which would adversely affect us. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or refinance existing indebtedness on reasonable terms and may have other adverse effects. Commercial-credit market disruptions may result in tight credit markets in the United States. Liquidity in the global-credit markets can be severely contracted by market disruptions making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases, result in the unavailability of certain types of financing. As a result of credit-market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt financing, or refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, which could affect operations and financial performance. Oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have negatively affected our financial results and could do so in the future. Our revenues, operating results, cash flow and future rate of growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. Historically, oil, NGLs and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Any decline in prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future financial results. Prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • political conditions in oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Nigeria and Venezuela; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree on prices and their ability to maintain production quotas; 30 Table of Contents • the price of foreign oil imports; • imports of liquefied natural gas; • actions of governmental authorities; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil, NGLs and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • U.S. storage levels of natural gas; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulations; • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil, NGLs and natural gas. Our contract drilling operations depend on levels of activity in the oil, NGLs and natural gas exploration and production industry. Our contract drilling operations depend on the level of activity in oil, NGLs and natural gas exploration and production in our operating markets. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices affect the level of that activity. Because oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are volatile, the level of exploration and production activity can also be volatile. Any decrease from current oil, NGLs and natural gas prices would depress the level of exploration and production activity. This, in turn, would likely result in a decline in the demand for our drilling services and would have an adverse effect on our contract drilling revenues, cash flows and profitability. As a result, the future demand for our drilling services is uncertain. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The drilling industry in which we operate is generally very competitive. Most drilling contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which may result in intense price competition. Some of our competitors in the contract drilling industry have greater financial and human resources than we do. These resources may enable them to better withstand periods of low drilling rig utilization, to compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, to build new drilling rigs or acquire existing drilling rigs and to provide drilling rigs more quickly than we do in periods of high drilling rig utilization. The oil and natural gas industry is also highly competitive. We compete in the areas of property acquisitions and oil and natural gas exploration, development, production and marketing with major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. In addition, we must compete with major and independent oil and natural gas concerns in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. Many of our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry have substantially greater resources than we do. Continued growth through acquisitions is not assured. In the past, we have experienced growth in each of our segments, in part, through mergers and acquisitions. The land drilling industry, the exploration and development industry, as well as the gas gathering and processing industry, have experienced significant consolidation over the past several years, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will continue to be available. Additionally, we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. 31 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will: • be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities; • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions; • successfully integrate acquired operations and assets; • effectively manage the growth and increased size; • maintain the crews and market share to operate any future drilling rigs we may acquire; or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects in any material manner as a result of any completed acquisition. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with any acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing shareholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. Successful acquisitions, particularly those of oil and natural gas companies or of oil and natural gas properties require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our operations have significant capital requirements, and our indebtedness could have important consequences. We have experienced and may continue to experience substantial working capital needs in the growth of our operations. We have $250.0 million of indebtedness outstanding on the Notes, and in addition, have the right to borrow up to $250.0 million under our credit agreement. As of February 10, 2012, we have outstanding borrowings of $50.0 million under our credit agreement. Our level of indebtedness, the cash flow needed to satisfy our indebtedness and the covenants governing our indebtedness could: • limit funds available for financing capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our competitors that are less leveraged than we are; • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil, NGLs and natural gas prices or in the event of a downturn in our business; and • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities. Our ability to meet our debt service and other contractual and contingent obligations will depend on our future performance. In addition, lower oil, NGLs and natural gas prices could result in future reductions in the amount available for borrowing under our credit agreement, reducing our liquidity and even triggering mandatory loan repayments. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our 32 Table of Contents reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flow from operations. Historically, we have succeeded in increasing reserves after taking production into account through exploration and development. We have conducted these activities on our existing oil and natural gas properties as well as on newly acquired properties. We may not be able to continue to replace reserves from these activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil, NGLs and natural gas may further limit the kinds of reserves that can economically be developed. Lower prices also decrease our cash flow and may cause us to decrease capital expenditures. We are continually identifying and evaluating opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions that would be significantly larger than those consummated to date by us. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any acquisition, that we will be able to acquire producing oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that any acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. The competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense. This competition could mean that to acquire properties we will have to pay higher prices and accept greater ownership risks than we have in the past. Our exploration and production and mid-stream operations involve a high degree of business and financial risk which could adversely affect us. Exploration and development involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil, NGLs and natural gas in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain. Numerous factors beyond our control may cause the curtailment, delay or cancellation of drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • capacity of pipeline systems; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or delivery crews and the delivery of equipment. Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity. Although we may disclose our overall drilling success rate, those rates may decline. Although we may discuss drilling prospects that we have identified or budgeted for, we may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. Lack of drilling success will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our mid-stream operations involve numerous risks, both financial and operational. The cost of developing gathering systems and processing plants is substantial and our ability to recoup these costs is uncertain. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of many things beyond our control, including: • unexpected changes in the deliverability of natural gas reserves from the wells connected to the gathering systems; • availability of competing pipelines in the area; • capacity of pipeline systems; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; 33 Table of Contents • delays in the development of other producing properties within the gathering system’s area of operation; and • demand for natural gas and its constituents. Many of the wells from which we gather and process natural gas are operated by other parties. As a result, we have little control over the operations of those wells which can act to increase our risk. Operators of those wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. Our continued drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for these professionals can be extremely intense, particularly when the industry is experiencing favorable conditions. Our hedging arrangements might limit the benefit of increases in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. In order to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil, NGLs and natural gas, we sometimes enter into hedging arrangements. Our hedging arrangements apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. These hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices. Estimates of our reserves are uncertain and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions concerning: • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices; • future operating costs; • severance and excise taxes; • development costs; and • workover and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil, NGLs and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and those variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices on the first day of the 34 Table of Contents month for each month within the 12-month period before the end of the reporting period and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by the following factors: • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • increases or decreases in consumption; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% per year discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general. If oil, NGLs and natural gas prices decrease or are unusually volatile, we may be required to take write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties, the carrying value of our drilling rigs or our natural gas gathering and processing systems. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10% per year. Application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of month for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements, and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded, even if prices were depressed for only a short period of time. Prior to 2009, the price was based on the single-day period-end price. The revision to the 12-month average price was made to reduce the affect of short-term volatility and seasonality that previously occurred with single-day pricing. Using the 12-month average may or may not result in write-downs that would have been required had the single-day period-end price been used. We may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings, but would not impact cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date. Our drilling equipment, transportation equipment, gas gathering and processing systems and other property and equipment are carried at cost. We are required to periodically test to see if these values, including associated goodwill and other intangible assets, have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any of these assets are determined to be impaired, the loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. An estimate of fair value is based on the best information available, including prices for similar assets. Changes in these estimates could cause us to reduce the carrying value of property, equipment and related intangible assets. Once these values have been reduced, they are not reversible. Our operations present inherent risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling industry, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather. Our exploration and production and mid-stream operations are subject to these and similar risks. Any of these events could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage and damage to the property of others. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we 35 Table of Contents seek to obtain indemnification from our drilling customers by contract for some of these risks. To the extent that we are unable to transfer these risks to drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements (or to the extent we assume obligations of indemnity or assume liability for certain risks under our drilling contracts), we seek protection from some of these risks through insurance. However, some risks are not covered by insurance and we cannot assure you that the insurance we do have or the indemnification agreements we have entered into will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, the insurance might not be adequate to cover all of our losses, or we might decide against obtaining that insurance because of high premiums or other costs. In addition, we are not the operator of many of our wells. As a result, our operating risks for those wells and our ability to influence the operations for those wells are less subject to our control. Operators of those wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. We are (or could become) subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions where we own or operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any number of ways including the following: • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; • from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; • damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and • blowouts, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business. The current Congress and White House administration may impose or change laws and regulations that will adversely affect our business. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation and more extensive permit requirements, our risks related to environmental matters and our environmental expenditures could increase in the future. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by the former operators, which liability could be material. Any future implementation of price controls on oil, NGLs and natural gas would affect our operations. Certain groups have asserted efforts to have the United States Congress impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas or both. There is no way at this time to know what result these efforts will have nor, if implemented, their effect on our operations. However, it is possible that these efforts, if successful, would serve 36 Table of Contents to limit the amount that we might be able to get for our future oil, NGLs and natural gas production. Any future limits on the price of oil, NGLs and natural gas could also result in adversely affecting the demand for our drilling services. Our shareholders’ rights plan and provisions of Delaware law and our by-laws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent shareholders from receiving a premium on their investment. Our by-laws and charter provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms and authorizes the board of directors to set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, our charter and Delaware law contain provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. We have also adopted a shareholders’ rights plan. Because of our shareholders’ rights plan and these provisions of our by-laws, charter and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it more difficult for our shareholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent board of directors. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our production. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete, and we may be adversely affected. We may be affected by climate change and market or regulatory responses to climate change. Climate change, including the impact of potential global warming regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities associated with our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities associated with our business in an unpredictable manner that could alter our business activities. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of business activity we conduct and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The results of our operations depend on our ability to transport oil, NGLs and gas production to key markets. The marketability of our oil, NGLs and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems, refineries and other transportation sources. The unavailability of or lack of 37 Table of Contents available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil, NGLs and natural gas. The loss of one or a number of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2011, our largest customer, QEP Resources, Inc. accounted for approximately 22% of our contract drilling revenues. No other third party customer accounted for 10% or more of our contract drilling revenues. Any of our customers may choose not to use our services and the loss of one or a number of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of completion equipment and services could delay or otherwise adversely affect our oil and natural gas segment’s operations. In the past year or so, the increase in horizontal drilling activity in certain areas has resulted in shortages in the availability of third party equipment and services required for the completion of wells drilled by our oil and natural gas segment. As a result, we have experienced delays in completing some of our wells. Although we have taken steps to try to reduce the delays associated with these services, we anticipate that these services will remain in high demand for the immediate future and could delay, restrict or curtail part of our exploration and development operations, which could in turn harm our results. Our mid-stream segment depends on certain natural gas producers and pipeline operators for a significant portion of its supply of natural gas and NGLs. The loss of any of these producers could result in a decline in our volumes and revenues. We rely on certain natural gas producers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGL supply. While some of these producers are subject to long-term contracts, we may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by these producers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our mid-stream segment unless we were able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources. The counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts may not be able to perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. To reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our forecasted oil and natural gas production. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities, as well as to the ability of counterparties under our commodity derivative contracts to satisfy their obligations to us. The worldwide financial and credit crisis may have adversely affected the ability of these counterparties to fulfill their obligations to us. If one or more of our counterparties is unable or unwilling to make required payments to us under our commodity derivative contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on management. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. 38 Table of Contents We are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income and materially impairing our financial position. The nature of our business makes us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. We are subject to various existing legal claims and lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Derivatives regulation included in current financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act) was passed by Congress and signed into law. The Act contains significant derivatives regulation, including a requirement that certain transactions be cleared on exchanges and a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as “margin”) for such transactions. The Act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. The Act requires the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission (the CFTC) to promulgate rules to define these terms, but we do not know the definitions that the CFTC will actually promulgate or how these definitions will apply to us. We use crude oil, NGLs and natural gas derivative instruments with respect to a portion of our expected production in order to reduce commodity price uncertainty and enhance the predictability of cash flows relating to the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas. As commodity prices increase, our derivative liability positions increase; however, none of our current derivative contracts require the posting of margin or similar cash collateral when there are changes in the underlying commodity prices that are referred to in these contracts. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we could be required to post collateral with our dealer counterparties for our commodities derivative transactions. Such a requirement could have a significant impact on our business by reducing our ability to execute derivative transactions to reduce commodity price uncertainty and to protect cash flows. Requirements to post collateral would cause significant liquidity issues by reducing our ability to use cash for investment or other corporate purposes, or would require us to increase our level of debt. In addition, a requirement for our counterparties to post collateral would likely result in additional costs being passed on to us, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of our hedges and our profitability. Proposed federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic-fracturing is an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry used to stimulate production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids from dense subsurface rock formations. Our oil and natural gas segment routinely apply hydraulic-fracturing techniques to many of our oil and natural gas properties, including our unconventional resource plays in the Granite Wash of Texas and Oklahoma, the Marmaton of Oklahoma, the Wilcox of Texas and the Bakken of North Dakota and Montana. Hydraulic-fracturing involves using water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic-fracturing activities involving diesel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress, called the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic-fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. 39 Table of Contents Certain states in which we operate, including Texas and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas (RCT) and the public of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling and/or completion of wells. There are certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating a review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic-fracturing practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. Additionally, certain members of the Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their course and results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory processes. Further, on July 28, 2011, the EPA issued proposed rules that would subject all oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAPS) programs. The EPA proposed rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion (REC) techniques developed in EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program along with the pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line. The standards would be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the proposed regulations under NESHAPS include maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. We are currently evaluating the effect these proposed rules could have on our business. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil, natural gas, and associated liquids including from the development of shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of additional federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 40 Table of Contents On October 20, 2011, EPA announced a schedule for development of standards for disposal of wastewater produced from shale gas operations to publicly owned treatment works (POTWs). The regulations will be developed under EPA’s Effluent Guidelines Program under the authority of the Clean Water Act. EPA anticipates issuing the proposed rules in 2014. Our ability to produce crude oil, natural gas and associated liquids economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations and/or completions or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules. To our knowledge, there have been no citations, suits, or contamination of potable drinking water arising from our fracturing operations. We do not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, it is possible that our general liability and excess liability insurance policies might cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses depending on the specific nature of the claims, the timing of the claims, as well as the specific terms of such policies. The hydraulic fracturing process on which we depend to produce commercial quantities of crude oil, natural gas and associated liquids from many reservoirs requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our oil and natural gas segment operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of wastes, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 