Risk Factors Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations. The Company’s business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern associated with the retail industry of peak sales and earnings during the Holiday season. Due to the importance of the Holiday selling season, the fourth quarter of each fiscal year has historically contributed, and the Company expects it will continue to contribute, a disproportionate percentage of the Company’s net sales and much of its net income for the entire fiscal year. Any factors negatively affecting the Company during the Holiday selling season in any year, including unfavorable economic conditions, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company generally experiences lower sales and earnings during the first three quarters and, as is typical in the retail industry, may incur losses in these quarters. The results of operations for these interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full fiscal year. In addition, the Company makes decisions regarding merchandise well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. Significant deviations from projected demand for products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, either by lost gross sales due to insufficient inventory or lost gross margin due to the need to mark down excess inventory. The Company’s quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate based upon such factors as delays in the flow of merchandise, the number and timing of new store openings and related store preopening expenses, the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores, the mix of products sold, the timing and level of markdowns, store closings or relocations, competitive factors, changes in fuel and other shipping costs, general economic conditions, labor market fluctuations, changes in accounting rules and regulations and unseasonable weather conditions. Effect of Economic Conditions and Geographic Concentration. The success of the Company’s business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. Among the factors that affect consumer spending are the general state of the economy, the level of consumer debt, prevailing interest rates and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. A substantial number of the Company’s stores are located in the western United States, principally in California. Lower levels of consumer spending in this region could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for the Company’s products, limitations on the Company’s ability to increase prices and may require increased levels of selling and promotional expenses, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Threat or Occurrence of International Conflicts or Terrorist Activities. The occurrence or threat of international conflicts or terrorist activities, the responses thereto, and the results of such activities could materially impact the Company, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets and general economic conditions. Changes in Energy and Transportation Costs. The Company incurs significant costs for the purchase of fuel in transporting goods from foreign ports and to its distribution centers and stores and for the purchase of utility service for its store, distribution center and corporate office locations. The Company is continually in the process of negotiating pricing for certain transportation contracts and expects vendor proposed rate increases. Significant increases in the cost of fuel and utility services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Expansion. The Company’s ability to continue to increase its net sales and earnings will depend in part on its ability to open new stores and to operate such stores on a profitable basis. The Company’s continued growth will also depend on its ability to increase sales in its existing stores. The Company opened a net of 33 stores in fiscal 2004 and presently anticipates opening a net of 30 stores in fiscal 2005. The Company intends to open stores in both existing and new geographic markets. The opening of additional stores in an existing market could result in lower net sales from existing stores in that market. The success of the Company’s planned expansion will be dependent upon many factors, including the identification of suitable markets, the availability and leasing of suitable sites on acceptable terms, the hiring, training and retention of qualified management and other store personnel and general economic conditions. To manage its planned expansion, the Company must ensure the continuing adequacy of its existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its planned expansion, that new stores will be effectively integrated into the Company’s existing operations or that such stores will be profitable. The Company’s expansion strategy includes opening stores in new geographic markets. These new markets may present competitive and merchandising challenges that are different from those currently faced by the Company in its existing geographic markets. The Company may incur higher costs related to advertising and distribution in connection with entering new markets. If the Company opens stores in new markets that do not perform to the Company’s expectations or if store openings are delayed, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Associated with Comparable Store Sales. The Company experiences fluctuations in its comparable store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed fourteen full fiscal months of sales. To ensure a meaningful comparison, comparable store sales are measured on a 52-week basis. The Company’s success depends, in part, upon its ability to improve sales at its existing stores. Various factors affect comparable store sales, including the general retail sales environment, the Company’s ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in the Company’s merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause the Company’s comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. Past comparable store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s comparable store sales will not decrease in the future. Any failure to meet the comparable store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Associated with Importing. The Company imports a significant portion of its merchandise from over 50 countries. The Company relies on its long-term relationships with its suppliers but has no long-term contracts with such suppliers. The Company’s future success will depend in large measure upon its ability to maintain its existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones. As an importer, the Company’s business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, freight cost 6 Table of Contents increases and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which the Company purchases products. The Company’s business is also subject to the risks associated with any new or revised United States legislation and regulations related to imported products, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported merchandise. If any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of the Company’s products in the future, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Two Distribution Facilities. The Company’s distribution functions for all of its stores are currently handled from facilities in Stockton, California and Windsor, Virginia. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including any interruption as a result of the planned renovation and integration of the new Stockton facility purchased in February 2005, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Operational inefficiencies or failure to coordinate the operations of these facilities successfully could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Merchandising. The Company’s success depends in part upon the ability of its merchandising staff to anticipate the tastes of its customers and to provide merchandise that appeals to their preferences. The Company’s strategy requires it to introduce in a timely manner products from around the world that are affordable, distinctive in quality and design and that are not widely available from other retailers. Many of the Company’s products require long lead times. In addition, a large percentage of the Company’s merchandise changes regularly. The Company’s failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer trends could lead to, among other things, excess inventories and higher markdowns or a shortage of products and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Competition. The markets served by the Company are highly competitive. The Company competes against a diverse group of retailers ranging from specialty stores to department stores and discounters. The Company’s product offerings compete with such retailers as Bed Bath & Beyond, Target, Linens n’ Things, Crate & Barrel, Pottery Barn, Michaels Stores, Pier 1 Imports, Trader Joe’s and Williams-Sonoma. The Company competes with these and other retailers for customers, suitable retail locations and qualified management personnel. Many of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. Dependence on Key Personnel. The success of the Company’s business will continue to depend upon its key personnel. The Company does not maintain any key man life insurance policies. The loss of the services of one or more of its key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Possible Volatility of Stock Price. The stock market can experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected the market price of the Company’s common stock. Factors such as fluctuations in the Company’s operating results, a downturn in the retail industry, changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding the Company, other retail companies or the retail industry in general and general market and economic conditions may have a significant effect on the market price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Associated with Foreign Currency. The Company enters into a significant amount of purchase obligations outside of the United States of America. During fiscal 2004, approximately 5.0% of these purchases were settled in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in the rates of exchange between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Historically, the Company has not hedged its currency risk and does not currently anticipate doing so in the future. 7 Table of Contents 