Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS/CAUTIONARY STATEMENT AND RISK FACTORS This report, including information included in, or incorporated by reference from future filings by us with the SEC, as well as information contained in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by or on our behalf, contain, or may contain, certain statements that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of federal securities laws. This report modifies and supersedes documents filed by us before this report. In addition, certain information that we file with the SEC in the future will automatically update and supersede information contained in this report. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated by reference in this report, which address activities, events or developments which we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “intends,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “estimates,” “predicts” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, such things as: • the amount and nature of our future capital expenditures and how we expect to fund our capital expenditures; • the amount of wells we plan to drill or rework; • prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas; • demand for oil and natural gas; • our exploration prospects; • the estimates of our proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves; • oil, NGLs and natural gas reserve potential; • development and infill drilling potential; • our drilling prospects; • expansion and other development trends of the oil and natural gas industry; • our business strategy; • production of oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves; • growth potential for our mid-stream operations; • gathering systems and processing plants we plan to construct or acquire; • volumes and prices for natural gas gathered and processed; • expansion and growth of our business and operations; • demand for our drilling rigs and drilling rig rates; and • our belief that the final outcome of our legal proceedings will not materially affect our financial results. 21 Table of Contents These statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by us in light of our experience and our perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. However, whether actual results and developments will conform to our expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, including: • the risk factors discussed in this report and in the documents we incorporate by reference; • general economic, market or business conditions; • the nature or lack of business opportunities that we pursue; • demand for our land drilling services; • changes in laws or regulations; • the time period associated with the current decrease in commodity prices; and • other factors, most of which are beyond our control. You should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we disclaim any current intention to update forward-looking information and to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In order to help provide you with a more thorough understanding of the possible effects of some of these influences on any forward-looking statements made by us, the following discussion outlines some (but not all) of the factors that in the future could cause our 2010 consolidated results and beyond to differ materially from those that may be presented in any such forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. Drilling Customer Demand. With the exception of the drilling we do for our own account, the demand for our drilling services depends entirely on the needs of third parties. Based on past history, these parties’ requirements are subject to a number of factors, independent of any subjective factors, that directly impact the demand for our drilling rigs. These factors include the availability of funds to carry out their drilling operations. For many of these parties, even if they have the funds available, their decision to spend those funds is often based on the then current prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. Many of our customers’ budgets tend to be susceptible to the influences of current price fluctuations. Other factors that affect our ability to work our drilling rigs are: the weather which, under adverse circumstances, can delay or even cause the abandonment of a project by an operator; the competition faced by us in securing the award of a drilling contract in a given area; our experience and recognition in a new market area; and the availability of labor to operate our drilling rigs. As noted elsewhere in this report, the decline in the economy and commodity prices starting in late 2008 significantly reduced the demand for our drilling rigs. If these conditions continue, we expect that the demand for our drilling rigs will continue to be depressed. Oil, NGLs and Natural Gas Prices. The prices we receive for our oil, NGLs and natural gas production have a direct impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flow as well as our ability to meet our projected financial and operational goals. The prices for natural gas and crude oil are heavily dependent on a number of factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for oil and/or natural gas; • current weather conditions in the continental United States (which can greatly influence the demand for natural gas at any given time as well as the price we receive for such natural gas); 22 Table of Contents • the amount and timing of liquid natural gas imports; and • the ability of current distribution systems in the United States to effectively meet the demand for oil and/or natural gas at any given time, particularly in times of peak demand which may result because of adverse weather conditions. Oil prices are extremely sensitive to foreign influences based on political, social or economic underpinnings, any one of which could have an immediate and significant effect on the price and supply of oil. In addition, prices of natural gas, NGLs and oil are becoming more and more influenced by trading on the commodities markets which, at times, has tended to increase the volatility associated with these prices resulting, at times, in large differences in such prices even on a week-to-week and month-to-month basis. All of these factors, especially when coupled with the fact that much of our product prices are determined on a daily basis, can, and at times do, lead to wide fluctuations in the prices we receive. Based on our 2009 production, a $0.10 per Mcf change in what we receive for our natural gas production, without the effect of hedging, would result in a corresponding $359,000 per month ($4.3 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow. A $1.00 per barrel change in our oil price, without the effect of hedging, would have an $101,000 per month ($1.2 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow and a $1.00 per barrel change in our NGLs price, without the effect of hedging, would have a $123,000 per month ($1.5 million annualized) change in our pre-tax operating cash flow. During 2009, substantially all of our natural gas, crude oil and NGLs volumes were sold at market responsive prices. To help manage our cash flow and capital expenditure requirements, we hedged approximately 77%, 71% and 33% of our 2009 average daily production for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs, respectively. In order to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil, NGLs and natural gas, we sometimes enter into hedging arrangements such as swaps and collars. Our hedging arrangements apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. These hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of future increases in prices. A more thorough discussion of our hedging arrangements is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report contained in Item 7. Uncertainty of Oil, NGLs and Natural Gas Reserves; Ceiling Test. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The oil, NGLs and natural gas reserve information included in this report represents only an estimate of these reserves. Oil, NGLs and natural gas reservoir engineering is a subjective and an inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, NGLs and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions concerning: • reservoir size; • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices; • future operating costs; • severance and excise taxes; • development costs; and • workover and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, 23 Table of Contents classifications of those oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, oil, NGLs and natural gas reserve estimates may be subject to periodic downward or upward adjustments. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves will likely vary from estimates, and those variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows included in this report is not necessarily the current market value of the estimated oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. Effective December 31, 2009, as required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves are determined based on the unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of the month for each month within the 12-month period before the end of the reporting period, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements. Previously, the price used was based on the single-day period-end price. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows are also affected, in part, by the following factors: • the amount and timing of oil and natural gas production; • supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • increases or decreases in consumption; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% discount factor, required by the SEC for use in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. As of December 31, 2009, application of this “ceiling test” generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated 12-month average price and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if we exceed the ceiling, even if prices are depressed for only a short period of time. Previously, the price was based on the single-day period-end price. The revision to the 12-month average price was made to reduce the affect of short-term volatility and seasonality that previously occurred with single-day pricing. Using the 12-month average may or may not result in write-downs that would have been required had the single-day period-end price been used. We may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings but would not impact our cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible. As a result of these ceiling test rules, we recorded a non-cash ceiling test write down of $282.0 million pre-tax ($175.5 million, net of tax) during the year ended December 31, 2008 as well as a non-cash ceiling test write down of $281.2 million pre-tax ($175.1 million, net of tax) during the quarter ended March 31, 2009. We are continually identifying and evaluating opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions that would be significantly larger than those we have consummated to date. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any acquisition, that we will be able to acquire producing oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that any acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. Debt and Bank Borrowing. We have incurred and currently expect to continue to incur substantial working capital expenditures because of the growth in our operations. Historically, we have funded our working capital needs through a combination of internally generated cash flow and borrowings under our bank credit 24 Table of Contents facility. We have also, from time to time, obtained funds through equity financing. We currently have, and will continue to have, a certain amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2009, our outstanding long-term debt was $30.0 million. Depending on the amount of our debt, the cash flow needed to satisfy our debt and the covenants contained in our bank credit facility, such debt could: • limit funds otherwise available for financing our capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less indebted than we are; • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil, NGLs and natural gas prices or in the event of a downturn in our business; and • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities. Our ability to meet our debt obligations depends on our future performance. If the requirements of our indebtedness are not satisfied, a default could be deemed to occur and our lenders would be entitled to accelerate the payment of the outstanding indebtedness. If that were to occur, we would not have sufficient funds available and probably would not be able to obtain the financing required to meet our obligations. The amount of our existing debt, as well as our future debt, if any, is, to a large extent, based on the costs associated with the projects we undertake at any given time and of our cash flow. Generally, our normal operating costs are those resulting from the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, the acquisition of producing properties, the costs associated with the maintenance or expansion of our drilling rig fleet, and the operations of our natural gas buying, selling, gathering, processing and treating systems. To some extent, these costs, particularly the first two are discretionary and we maintain a degree of control regarding the timing or the need to actually incur them. But, in some cases, unforeseen circumstances may arise, such as in the case of an unanticipated opportunity to make a large acquisition or the need to replace a costly drilling rig component due to an unexpected loss, which could force us to incur additional debt above that which we had expected or forecasted. Likewise, if our cash flow should prove to be insufficient to cover our current cash requirements we would need to increase our debt either through bank borrowings or otherwise. We entered into the following interest rate swaps to help manage our exposure to possible future interest rate increases. Under these transactions we have swapped the variable interest rate we would otherwise incur on a portion of our bank debt for a fixed interest rate. Currently, all of our bank debt is subject to the following interest rate swaps. A more thorough discussion of our hedging or swap arrangements is contained in Item 7 of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation section of this report. Term Amount FixedRate Floating Rate December 2007 – May 2012 $ 15,000,000 4.53 % 3 month LIBOR December 2007 – May 2012 $ 15,000,000 4.16 % 3 month LIBOR 25 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS There are many other factors that could adversely affect our business. The following discussion describes the material risks currently known to us. However, additional risks that we do not know about or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect the value of our securities. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this report. Events in the financial markets and the economy could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. As a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and substantial uncertainty in the capital markets due to the uncertain global economic environment, a number of our drilling customers have reduced spending on exploration and development drilling, in addition it is uncertain whether customers and/or vendors and suppliers will be able to access financing necessary to sustain their operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. The uncertainty in the global economic environment may result in a decrease in demand for drilling rigs. These conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If demand for oil and natural gas is reduced, our ability to market as well as produce our oil and natural gas may be negatively affected. Historically, oil and gas prices have been extremely volatile, with significant increases and significant price drops being experienced from time to time. In the future, various factors beyond our control will have a significant effect on oil and gas prices. Such factors include, among other things, the domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas, the price of foreign imports, the levels of consumer demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the availability of pipeline capacity and changes in existing and proposed federal regulation and price controls. The natural gas market is also unsettled due to a number of factors. At times in the past, production from natural gas wells in some geographic areas of the United States was curtailed for considerable periods of time due to a lack of market demand. When demand for natural gas increased the number of wells being shut-in for lack of demand was reduced. It is possible, however, that some of our wells may in the future be shut-in or that natural gas will be sold on terms less favorable than might otherwise be obtained should demand for gas lessen in the future. Competition for available markets has been vigorous and there remains great uncertainty about prices that purchasers will pay. Natural gas surpluses could result in our inability to market natural gas profitably, causing us to curtail production and/or receive lower prices for our natural gas, situations which would adversely affect us. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or refinance existing indebtedness on reasonable terms and may have other adverse effects. Commercial-credit market disruptions have resulted in a tightening of credit markets in the United States. Liquidity in the global-credit markets has been severely contracted by these market disruptions making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. As a result of ongoing credit-market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt financing, or refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, which could affect operations and financial performance. 26 Table of Contents Oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have negatively affected our financial results and could do so in the future. Our revenues, operating results, cash flow and future rate of growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas. Historically, oil, NGLs and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Any decline in prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future financial results. Because our oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves are predominantly natural gas, significant changes in natural gas prices would have a particularly large impact on our financial results. Prices for oil, NGLs and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • political conditions in oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Nigeria and Venezuela; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree on prices and their ability to maintain production quotas; • the price of foreign oil imports; • imports of liquefied natural gas; • actions of governmental authorities; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • U.S. storage levels of natural gas; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulations; • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil, NGLs and natural gas. Our contract drilling operations depend on levels of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Our contract drilling operations depend on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration and production in our operating markets. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices affect the level of that activity. Because oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are volatile, the level of exploration and production activity can also be volatile. Any decrease from current oil, NGLs and natural gas prices would depress the level of exploration and production activity. This, in turn, would likely result in a decline in the demand for our drilling services and would have an adverse effect on our contract drilling revenues, cash flows and profitability. As a result, the future demand for our drilling services is uncertain. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The drilling industry in which we operate is generally very competitive. Most drilling contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which may result in intense price competition. Some of our competitors in the 27 Table of Contents contract drilling industry have greater financial and human resources than we do. These resources may enable them to better withstand periods of low drilling rig utilization, to compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, to build new drilling rigs or acquire existing drilling rigs and to provide drilling rigs more quickly than we do in periods of high drilling rig utilization. The oil and natural gas industry is also highly competitive. We compete in the areas of property acquisitions and oil and natural gas exploration, development, production and marketing with major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. In addition, we must compete with major and independent oil and natural gas concerns in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. Many of our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry have substantially greater resources than we do. Continued growth through acquisitions is not assured. In the past, we have experienced growth in each of our segments, in part, through mergers and acquisitions. The land drilling industry, the exploration and development industry, as well as the gas gathering and processing industry, have experienced significant consolidation over the past several years, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will continue to be available. Additionally, we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will: • be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities; • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions; • successfully integrate acquired operations and assets; • effectively manage the growth and increased size; • maintain the crews and market share to operate any future drilling rigs we may acquire; or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects in any material manner as a result of any completed acquisition. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with any acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing shareholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. Successful acquisitions, particularly those of oil and natural gas companies or of oil and natural gas properties require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our operations have significant capital requirements, and our indebtedness could have important consequences. We have experienced and may continue to experience substantial working capital needs in the growth of our operations. On February 12, 2010, our outstanding long-term debt was $30.0 million. Our level of indebtedness, the cash flow needed to satisfy our indebtedness and the covenants governing our indebtedness could: • limit funds available for financing capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities; 28 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our competitors that are less leveraged than we are; • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil, NGLs and natural gas prices or in the event of a downturn in our business; and • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities. Our ability to meet our debt service and other contractual and contingent obligations will depend on our future performance. In addition, lower oil, NGLs and natural gas prices could result in future reductions in the amount available for borrowing under our credit facility, reducing our liquidity and even triggering mandatory loan repayments. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flow from operations. Historically, we have succeeded in increasing reserves after taking production into account through exploration and development. We have conducted these activities on our existing oil and natural gas properties as well as on newly acquired properties. We may not be able to continue to replace reserves from these activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil and natural gas may further limit the kinds of reserves that can economically be developed. Lower prices also decrease our cash flow and may cause us to decrease capital expenditures. We are continually identifying and evaluating opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions that would be significantly larger than those consummated to date by us. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any acquisition, that we will be able to acquire producing oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that any acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. The competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense. This competition could mean that to acquire properties we will have to pay higher prices and accept greater ownership risks than we have in the past. Our exploration and production and mid-stream operations involve a high degree of business and financial risk which could adversely affect us. Exploration and development involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain. Numerous factors beyond our control may cause the curtailment, delay or cancellation of drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or delivery crews and the delivery of equipment. 29 Table of Contents Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity. Although we may disclose our overall drilling success rate, those rates may decline. Although we may discuss drilling prospects that we have identified or budgeted for, we may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. Lack of drilling success will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our mid-stream operations involve numerous risks, both financial and operational. The cost of developing gathering systems and processing plants is substantial and our ability to recoup these costs is uncertain. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of many things beyond our control, including: • unexpected changes in the deliverability of natural gas reserves from the wells connected to the gathering systems; • availability of competing pipelines in the area; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; • delays in the development of other producing properties within the gathering system’s area of operation; and • demand for natural gas and its constituents. Many of the wells from which we gather and process natural gas are operated by other parties. As a result, we have little control over the operations of those wells which can act to increase our risk. Operators of those wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations or financial results. Our continued drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers and other professionals. Competition for these professionals can be extremely intense, particularly when the industry is experiencing favorable conditions. Our hedging arrangements might limit the benefit of increases in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. In order to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil, NGLs and natural gas, we sometimes enter into hedging arrangements. Our hedging arrangements apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. These hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices. Estimates of our reserves are uncertain and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions concerning: • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • future oil, NGLs and natural gas prices; 30 Table of Contents • future operating costs; • severance and excise taxes; • development costs; and • workover and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and those variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices on the first day of the month for each month within the 12-month period before the end of the reporting period and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by the following factors: • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • increases or decreases in consumption; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% per year discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general. If oil, NGLs and natural gas prices decrease or are unusually volatile, we may be required to take write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties, the carrying value of our drilling rigs or our natural gas gathering and processing systems. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10% per year. Effective December 31, 2009, application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of month for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices were defined by contractual arrangements, and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded, even if prices were depressed for only a short period of time. Previously, the price was based on the single-day period-end price. The revision to the 12-month average price was made to reduce the affect of short-term volatility and seasonality that previously occurred with single-day pricing. Using the 12-month average may or may not result in write-downs that would have been required had the single-day period-end price been used. We may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings, but would not impact cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date. 31 Table of Contents Our drilling equipment, transportation equipment, gas gathering and processing systems and other property and equipment are carried at cost. We are required to periodically test to see if these values, including associated goodwill and other intangible assets, have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any of these assets are determined to be impaired, the loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. An estimate of fair value is based on the best information available, including prices for similar assets. Changes in these estimates could cause us to reduce the carrying value of property, equipment and related intangible assets. Once these values have been reduced, they are not reversible. Our operations present inherent risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling industry, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather. Our exploration and production and mid-stream operations are subject to these and similar risks. Any of these events could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage and damage to the property of others. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we seek to obtain indemnification from our drilling customers by contract for some of these risks. To the extent that we are unable to transfer these risks to drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements (or to the extent we assume obligations of indemnity or assume liability for certain risks under our drilling contracts), we seek protection from some of these risks through insurance. However, some risks are not covered by insurance and we cannot assure you that the insurance we do have or the indemnification agreements we have entered into will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, the insurance might not be adequate to cover all of our losses, or we might decide against obtaining that insurance because of high premiums or other costs. In addition, we are not the operator of many of our wells. As a result, our operating risks for those wells and our ability to influence the operations for those wells are less subject to our control. Operators of those wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. We are (or could become) subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions where we own or operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any number of ways including the following: • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; • from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; 32 Table of Contents • damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and • blowouts, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business. The current Congress and White House administration may impose or change laws and regulations that will adversely affect our business. With the trend toward stricter standards, greater regulation and more extensive permit requirements, our risks related to environmental matters and our environmental expenditures could increase in the future. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by the former operators, which liability could be material. Any future implementation of price controls on oil, NGLs and natural gas would affect our operations. Certain groups have asserted efforts to have the United States Congress impose some form of price controls on either natural gas, oil or both. There is no way at this time to know what result these efforts will have nor, if implemented, their effect on our operations. However, it is possible that these efforts, if successful, would serve to limit the amount that we might be able to get for our future oil and natural gas production. Any future limits on the price of oil, NGLs and natural gas could also result in adversely affecting the demand for our drilling services. Our shareholders’ rights plan and provisions of Delaware law and our by-laws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent shareholders from receiving a premium on their investment. Our by-laws and charter provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms and authorizes the board of directors to set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, our charter and Delaware law contain provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. We have also adopted a shareholders’ rights plan. Because of our shareholders’ rights plan and these provisions of our by-laws, charter and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it more difficult for our shareholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent board of directors. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our production. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete, and we may be adversely affected. We may be affected by climate change and market or regulatory responses to climate change. Climate change, including the impact of potential global warming regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls 33 Table of Contents on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities associated with our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities associated with our business in an unpredictable manner that could alter our business activities. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of business activity we conduct and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The results of our operations depend on our ability to transport oil and gas production to key markets. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems. The unavailability of or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. The loss of one or a number of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2009, our largest customer, Questar Corporation accounted for approximately 35% of our contract drilling revenues. No other third party customer accounted for 10% or more of our contract drilling revenues. Any of our customers may choose not to use our services and the loss of one or a number of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our mid-stream segment depends on certain natural gas producers and pipeline operators for a significant portion of its supply of natural gas and NGLs. The loss of any of these producers could result in a decline in our volumes and revenues. We rely on certain natural gas producers for a significant portion of our natural gas and NGL supply. While some of these producers are subject to long-term contracts, we may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all or even a portion of the natural gas volumes supplied by these producers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our mid-stream segment unless we were able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources. The counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts may not be able to perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. To reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently, and may in the future, enter into commodity derivative contracts for a significant portion of our forecasted oil and natural gas production. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities, as well as to the ability of counterparties under our commodity derivative contracts to satisfy their obligations to us. The worldwide financial and credit crisis may have adversely affected the ability of these 34 Table of Contents counterparties to fulfill their obligations to us. If one or more of our counterparties is unable or unwilling to make required payments to us under our commodity derivative contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on management. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to various claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us requiring material future cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income and materially impairing our financial position. The nature of our business makes us highly susceptible to claims and litigation. We are subject to various existing legal claims and lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 