Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks and uncertainties that management believes are material are described below. The risks listed are not the only risks that BancShares faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that management does not currently deem to be material could also have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, the results of our operations or our business. If such risks and uncertainties were to become reality or the likelihood of those risks were to increase, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our businessBancShares’ business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on BancShares’ operations and financial condition. BancShares’ banking operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, BancShares expects to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets it serves. Unfavorable changes in unemployment, real estate values, interest rates and other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BancShares serves. Weakness in BancShares’ market area could have an adverse impact on our earnings, and consequently our financial condition and capital adequacy. Weakness in real estate markets and exposure to junior liens have adversely impacted our business and our results of operations and may continue to do so Real property collateral values have declined due to weaknesses in real estate sales activity. That risk, coupled with delinquencies and losses on various loan products caused by high rates of unemployment and underemployment, has resulted in losses on loans that, while adequately collateralized at the time of origination, are no longer fully secured. Our continuing exposure to under-collateralization is concentrated in our non-commercial revolving mortgage loan portfolio. Approximately two-thirds of the revolving mortgage portfolio is secured by junior lien positions and lower real estate values for collateral underlying these loans has, in many cases, caused the outstanding balance of the senior lien to exceed the value of the collateral, resulting in a junior lien loan that is in effect unsecured. A large portion of our losses within the revolving mortgage portfolio has arisen from junior lien loans due to inadequate collateral values.Further declines in collateral values, unfavorable economic conditions and sustained high rates of unemployment could result in greater delinquency, write-downs or charge-offs in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and capital adequacy.Accounting for acquired assets may result in earnings volatility Fair value discounts that are recorded at the time an asset is acquired are accreted into interest income based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The rate at which those discounts are accreted is unpredictable, the result of various factors including prepayments and credit quality improvements. Post-acquisition deterioration results in the recognition of provision expense and allowance for loan and lease losses. Additionally, the income statement impact of adjustments to the indemnification asset may occur over a shorter period of time than the adjustments to the covered assets.Fair value discount accretion, post-acquisition impairment and adjustments to the indemnification asset may result in significant volatility in our earnings. Volatility in earnings could unfavorably influence investor interest in our common stock thereby depressing the market value of our stock and the market capitalization of our company.Reimbursements under loss share agreements are subject to FDIC oversight and interpretation and contractual term limitations The FDIC-assisted transactions include loss share agreements that provide significant protection to FCB from the exposures to prospective losses on certain assets. Generally, losses on single family residential loans are covered for ten years. All other loans are generally covered for five years. During the third quarter of 2014, loss share protection will expire for non-single family residential loans acquired from Temecula Valley Bank and Venture Bank. During the first quarter of 2015, loss share protection will expire for non-single family residential loans acquired from First Regional Bank and Sun American Bank. Protection for all other covered assets extends beyond December 31, 2015. The loss share agreements impose certain obligations on us, including obligations to manage covered assets in a manner consistent with prudent business practices and in accordance with the procedures and practices that we customarily use for assets that are not covered by loss share agreements. We are required to report detailed loan level information and file requests 9Table of Contentsfor reimbursement of covered losses and expenses on a quarterly basis. In the event of noncompliance, delay or disallowance of some or all of our rights under those agreements could occur, including the denial of reimbursement for losses and related collection costs. Certain loss share agreements contain contingencies that require that we pay the FDIC in the event aggregate losses are less than a pre-determined amount. Loans and leases covered under loss share agreements represent 7.8 percent of total loans and leases as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we expect to receive cash payments from the FDIC totaling $38.4 million over the remaining lives of the respective loss share agreements, exclusive of $109.4 million we will owe the FDIC for settlement of the contingent payments.The loss share agreements are subject to differing interpretations by the FDIC and FCB and disagreements may arise regarding coverage of losses, expenses and contingencies. Additionally, losses that are currently projected to occur during the loss share term may not occur until after the expiration of the applicable agreement and those losses could have a material impact on results of operations in future periods. The carrying value of the FDIC receivable includes only those losses that we project to occur during the loss share period and for which we believe we will receive reimbursement from the FDIC at the applicable reimbursement rate.Merger integration may be disruptiveOn January 1, 2014, 1st Financial Services Corporation (1st Financial) was merged into FCB. During the second quarter of 2014, FCB will convert the 1st Financial systems to FCB systems. Complications in the conversion of operating systems, data processing systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to our reputation, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated, or reduced cost savings resulting from the merger. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our business or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We are subject to extensive oversight and regulation that continues to change We and FCB are subject to extensive federal and state banking laws and regulations. These laws and regulations focus on the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole rather than the protection of security holders. Federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher deposit insurance premiums, increased expenses, reductions in fee income and limitations on activities that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.In July 2013, Bank regulatory agencies approved new global regulatory capital guidelines (Basel) aimed at strengthening existing capital requirements for bank holding companies through a combination of higher minimum capital requirements, new capital conservation buffers and more conservative definitions of capital and balance sheet exposure. BancShares will be under the new requirements effective January 1, 2015, subject to a transition period for several aspects of the rule. When fully implemented in January 2019, we will be required to maintain a ratio of common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5 percent and a common equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets, totaling 7.0 percent. The rule also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4.0 percent to 6.0 percent and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0 percent.The Dodd-Frank Act instituted significant changes to the overall regulatory framework for financial institutions, including the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Additionally, trust preferred securities that currently qualify as tier 1 capital will be fully disallowed by January 1, 2016.We encounter significant competition We compete with other banks and specialized financial service providers in our market areas. Our primary competitors include local, regional and national banks, credit unions, commercial finance companies, various wealth management providers, independent and captive insurance agencies, mortgage companies and non-bank providers of financial services. Some of our larger competitors, including banks that have a significant presence in our market areas, have the capacity to offer products and services we do not offer. Some of our competitors operate in a regulatory environment that is less stringent than the one in which we operate, and certain competitors are not subject to federal and state income taxes. The fierce competitive pressure that we face adversely affects pricing for many of our products and services.10Table of ContentsOur financial condition could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutionsFinancial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to numerous financial service providers, including banks, brokers and dealers in securities and other financial service providers. Transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of counterparty default. We are subject to interest rate riskOur results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are sensitive to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including the actions of the Federal Reserve Board’s Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy could influence interest income and interest expense as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If changes in interest rates on our interest-earning assets are not equal to the changes in interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities, our net interest income and, therefore, our net income could be adversely impacted. Although we maintain an interest rate risk monitoring system, the forecasts of future net interest income are estimates and may be inaccurate. Actual interest rate movements may differ from our forecasts, and unexpected actions by the Federal Open Market Committee may have a direct impact on market interest rates. Our current level of balance sheet liquidity may come under pressure Our deposit base represents our primary source of core funding and balance sheet liquidity. We normally have the ability to stimulate core deposit growth through reasonable and effective pricing strategies. However, in circumstances where our ability to generate needed liquidity is impaired, we need access to noncore funding such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve, Federal Funds purchased and brokered deposits. While we maintain access to noncore funding sources, we are dependent on the availability of collateral and the counterparty’s willingness and ability to lend. We face significant operational risks in our businesses Our ability to adequately conduct and grow our business is dependent on our ability to create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways, including employee fraud, customer fraud and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees, automated systems and those systems maintained by third parties, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or tampering of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain an appropriate operational infrastructure can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled employeesFCB's success depends primarily on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition is intense for employees who we believe will be successful in developing and attracting new business and/or managing critical support functions for FCB. We may not be able to hire the best employees or retain them for an adequate period of time after their hire date.We are subject to information security risksWe maintain and transmit large amounts of sensitive information electronically, including personal and financial information of our customers. In addition to our own systems, we also rely on external vendors to provide certain services and are, therefore, exposed to their information security risk. While we seek to mitigate internal and external information security risks, the volume of business conducted through electronic devices continues to grow, and our computer systems and network infrastructure, as well as the systems of external vendors and customers, present security risks and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft.We are also subject to risks arising from a broad range of attacks by doing business on the Internet, which arise from both domestic and international sources and seek to obtain customer information for fraudulent purposes or, in some cases, to disrupt business activities. Information security risks could result in reputational damage and lead to a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and financial results of operations.11Table of ContentsWe continue to encounter technological change for which we expect to incur significant expense The financial services industry continues to experience an increase in technological complexity required to provide a competitive array of products and services to customers. Our future success requires that we maintain technology and associated facilities that will support our ability to provide products and services that satisfactorily meet the banking and other financial needs of our customers. In 2013, we undertook projects to modernize our systems and associated facilities, strengthen our business continuity and disaster recovery efforts and reduce operational risk. The projects will be implemented in phases over the next several years. The magnitude and scope of these projects is significant with total costs estimated to exceed $100 million. If the projects’ objectives are not achieved or if the cost of the projects is materially in excess of the estimate, our business, financial condition and financial results could be adversely impacted. We rely on external vendors Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, including certain data processing and information services. A number of our vendors are large national entities with dominant market presence in their respective fields, and their services could be difficult to quickly replace in the event of failure or other interruption in service. Failures of certain vendors to provide services for any reason could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. External vendors also present information security risk. We monitor vendor risks, including the financial stability of critical vendors. The failure of a critical external vendor could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant expense. We use accounting estimates in the preparation of our financial statements The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates that affect the financial statements. Significant estimates include the allowance for loan and lease losses, the fair values of acquired loans and other real estate owned (OREO) at acquisition date and cash flow projections in subsequent periods, pension plan assumptions, and the related receivable from and payable to the FDIC for loss share agreements. Due to the uncertainty of the circumstances relating to these estimates, we may experience more adverse outcomes than originally estimated. The allowance for loan and lease losses may need to be significantly increased based on future events. The actual losses or expenses on loans or the losses or expenses not covered under the FDIC agreements may differ from the recorded amounts, resulting in charges that could materially affect our results of operations.Accounting standards may change The Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission periodically modify the standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. The nature of these changes is not predictable and could impact how we record transactions in our financial statements, which could lead to material changes in assets, liabilities, shareholders’ equity, revenues, expenses and net income. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised standards retroactively, resulting in changes to previously-reported financial results or a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. Application of new accounting rules or standards could require us to implement costly technology changes. Our ability to grow is contingent on capital adequacyBased on existing capital levels, BancShares and FCB are well-capitalized under current leverage and risk-based capital standards. Our prospective ability to grow is contingent on our ability to generate sufficient capital to remain well-capitalized under current and future capital adequacy guidelines. Historically, our primary capital sources have been retained earnings and debt issued through both private and public markets including trust preferred securities and subordinated debt. Beginning January 1, 2015, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminate 75 percent of our trust preferred capital securities from tier 1 capital with the remaining 25 percent phased out January 1, 2016. Rating agencies regularly evaluate our creditworthiness and assign credit ratings to our debt and the debt of FCB. The ratings of the agencies are based on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. In addition to factors specific to our financial strength and performance, the rating agencies also consider conditions generally affecting the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. Rating reductions could adversely affect our access to funding sources and the cost of obtaining funding. 12Table of ContentsThe market price of our stock may be volatile Although publicly traded, our common stock has less liquidity and public float than other large publicly traded financial services companies as well as companies listed on the NASDAQ National Market System. Low liquidity increases the price volatility of our stock and could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell or buy our common stock at specific prices. Excluding the impact of liquidity, the market price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to other factors including expectations of operating results, actual operating results, actions of institutional shareholders, speculation in the press or the investment community, market perception of acquisitions, rating agency upgrades or downgrades, stock prices of other companies that are similar to us, general market expectations related to the financial services industry and the potential impact of government actions affecting the financial services industry. BancShares relies on dividends from FCB As a financial holding company, BancShares is a separate legal entity from FCB. BancShares derives considerable revenue and cash flow from dividends paid by FCB. The cash flow from these dividends is the primary source that allows BancShares to pay dividends on its common stock and interest and principal on its debt obligations. North Carolina state law limits the amount of dividends that FCB may pay to BancShares. In the event FCB is unable to pay dividends to BancShares for an extended period of time, BancShares may not be able to service its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. Our recorded goodwill may become impairedAs of December 31, 2013, we had $102.6 million of goodwill recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, and the impairment test compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value. We also test goodwill for impairment when certain events occur, such as a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or a sustained decline in the price of our common stock. These tests may result in a write-off of goodwill deemed to be impaired, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations, but would not impact our capital ratios since capital ratios are calculated using tangible capital amounts.