Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks and uncertainties that management believes are material are described below. The risks listed are not the only risks that BancShares faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known or that management does not currently deem material could also have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and/or the results of our operations or our business. If such risks and uncertainties were to become reality or the likelihoods of those risks were to increase, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline.We operate in a highly regulated industry and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and financial accounting, or reporting, including changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of our operations. In addition to a multitude of regulations designed to protect customers, depositors and consumers, we must comply with other regulations that protect the deposit insurance fund and the stability of the U.S. financial system, including laws and regulations which, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on our business activities and investments, limit the dividend or distributions that we can pay, restrict the ability of our bank subsidiaries to guarantee our debt and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or 8reductions in our capital than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes in laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. We continue to face increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the last financial crisis that impacted the banking and financial markets. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Further, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure was inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, mergers and acquisitions, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our common stock. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act heightened the regulation of the financial services industry. One key component of the Dodd-Frank Act was the establishment of the CFPB. The CFPB, in consultation with the Federal banking agencies, has been given primary federal jurisdiction for consumer protections in the financial services markets. Within certain limitations, the CFPB is charged with creating, revising or restating the consumer protection regulations applicable to commercial banks. We are subject to examination and supervision by the CFPB with respect to compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act still require rulemaking and interpretation by regulatory authorities. In several cases, authorities have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in some respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and us will not be known for some period of time. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act, and current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital and liquidity requirements, impose additional assessments and costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BancShares, together with FCB, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve issued final capital rules that replaced existing capital adequacy rules and implemented Basel III and certain requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act. When fully phased-in, these rules will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and FCB. Basel III increased our capital requirements and changed the risk-weighting of many of our assets.Under Basel III, Tier 1 capital consists of Common Equity Tier (CET) 1 Capital and additional Tier 1 capital, with Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital constituting total risk-based capital. Basel III set minimum capital requirements of a CET 1 ratio of 4.5 percent; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0 percent, and a total capital ratio of 8.0 percent. In addition, a Tier 1 leverage ratio to average consolidated assets of 4.0 percent applies. Further, we are required to maintain a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent of additional CET 1. If we do not maintain the capital conservation buffer once it is fully phased in, then our ability to pay dividends and discretionary bonuses, and to make share repurchases, will be restricted. We implemented Basel III effective January 1, 2015, and are required to comply with the minimum regulatory capital ratios; on that same date, the transition period for other requirements of the final rules and the capital conservation buffer also began. If the risk weightings of certain assets we hold should change and we are required to hold increased amounts of capital, the profitability of those assets and underlying businesses may change, which could result in changes in our business mix over the long-term.Basel III will also gradually eliminate the contribution of certain trust preferred and other hybrid debt securities to Tier 1 capital. Under the phased-in approach, the affected securities will lose Tier 1 capital status on January 1, 2016; the securities will, however, qualify for Tier 2 capital treatment.We encounter significant competition which may reduce our market share and profitabilityWe compete with other banks and specialized financial service providers in our market areas. Our primary competitors include local, regional and national banks; credit unions; commercial finance companies; various wealth management providers; independent and captive insurance agencies; mortgage companies; and non-bank providers of financial services. Some of our larger competitors, including banks that have a significant presence in our market areas, have the capacity to offer products and services we do not offer. Some of our competitors operate in less stringent regulatory environments, and certain competitors are not subject to federal and/or state income taxes. The fierce competitive pressures that we face adversely affect pricing for many of our products and services.9Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutionsFinancial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and/or other relationships. We have exposure to numerous financial service providers, including banks, securities brokers and dealers, and other financial service providers. Although we monitor the financial conditions of financial institutions with which we have credit exposure, transactions with such institutions expose us to credit risk through the possibility of counterparty default. Our ability to grow is contingent on capital adequacyBased on existing capital levels, BancShares and FCB are well-capitalized under current leverage and risk-based capital standards. Our ability to grow is contingent on our ability to generate sufficient capital to remain well-capitalized under current and future capital adequacy guidelines. Historically, our primary capital sources have been retained earnings and debt issued through both private and public markets, including trust preferred securities and subordinated debt. Effective January 1, 2015, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated 75 percent of our trust preferred capital securities from tier 1 capital with the remaining 25 percent phased out on January 1, 2016. Rating agencies regularly evaluate our creditworthiness and assign credit ratings to our debt and the debt of FCB. The ratings of the agencies are based on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. In addition to factors specific to our financial strength and performance, the rating agencies also consider conditions generally affecting the financial services industry. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. Rating reductions could adversely affect our access to funding sources and the cost of obtaining funding.If we fail to effectively manage credit risk and interest rate risk, our business and financial condition will sufferWe must effectively manage credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks of repayment, risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. There is no assurance that our credit risk monitoring and loan approval procedures are or will be adequate or will reduce the inherent risks associated with lending. Our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and cash flows are highly dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are sensitive to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including the actions of the Federal Reserve Board’s Federal Open Market Committee. Changes in monetary policy could influence interest income and interest expense as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If changes in interest rates on our interest-earning assets are not equal to the changes in interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities, our net interest income and, therefore, our net income could be adversely impacted.Although we maintain an interest rate risk monitoring system, the forecasts of future net interest income are estimates and may be inaccurate. Actual interest rate movements may differ from our forecasts, and unexpected actions by the Federal Open Market Committee may have a direct impact on market interest rates.If our current level of balance sheet liquidity were to experience pressure, that could affect our ability to pay deposits and fund our operationsOur deposit base represents our primary source of core funding and balance sheet liquidity. We normally have the ability to stimulate core deposit growth through reasonable and effective pricing strategies. However, in circumstances where our ability to generate needed liquidity is impaired, we need access to noncore funding such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve, Federal Funds purchased lines and brokered deposits. While we maintain access to these noncore funding sources, for some of them we are dependent on the availability of collateral and the counterparty’s willingness and ability to lend.The Dodd-Frank Act rescinded the long-standing prohibition on the payment of interest on commercial demand deposit accounts. Recent historically low interest rates, as well as relatively low levels of competition among banks for demand deposit accounts, have made it difficult to determine the impact on our deposit base, if any, of this repeal. As interest rates begin to rise, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margins may decrease, negatively impacting our performance and, potentially, our financial condition. To the extent banks and other financial service providers were to compete for commercial demand deposit accounts through higher interest rates, our deposit base could be reduced if we are unwilling to 10pay those higher rates; if we should determine to compete with those higher interest rates, our cost of funds could increase and our net interest margins could be reduced.Accounting for acquired assets may result in earnings volatilityFair value discounts that are recorded at the time an asset is acquired are accreted into interest income based on United States GAAP. The rate at which those discounts are accreted is unpredictable, the result of various factors including prepayments and credit quality improvements. Post-acquisition deterioration results in the recognition of provision expense and allowance for loan and lease losses. Additionally, the income statement impact of adjustments to the indemnification asset recorded in certain FDIC-assisted transactions may occur over a shorter period of time than the adjustments to the covered assets.Fair value discount accretion, post-acquisition impairment and adjustments to the indemnification asset may result in significant volatility in our earnings. Volatility in earnings could unfavorably influence investor interest in our common stock thereby depressing the market value of our stock and the market capitalization of our company.Reimbursements under loss share agreements are subject to FDIC oversight and interpretation and contractual term limitationsSome of our FDIC-assisted transactions include loss share agreements that provide significant protection to FCB from the exposures to prospective losses on certain assets. Generally, losses on single family residential loans are covered for ten years. All other loans are generally covered for five years. During 2016, loss share protection will expire for non-single family residential loans acquired from United Western Bank, Colorado Capital Bank, and Atlantic Bank and Trust. In 2014 and 2015, loss share protection expired for all other non-single family residential loans. Protection for all covered single family residential loans extends beyond December 31, 2017. The loss share agreements impose certain obligations on us, including obligations to manage covered assets in a manner consistent with prudent business practices and in accordance with the procedures and practices that we customarily use for assets that are not covered by loss share agreements. We are required to report detailed loan level information and file requests for reimbursement of covered losses and expenses on a quarterly basis. In the event of noncompliance, delay or disallowance of some or all of our rights under those agreements could occur, including the denial of reimbursement for losses and related collection costs. Certain loss share agreements contain contingencies that require that we pay the FDIC in the event aggregate losses are less than a pre-determined amount. Loans and leases covered under loss share agreements represent 1.3 percent of total loans and leases as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, we expect to receive cash payments from the FDIC totaling $4.1 million over the remaining lives of the respective loss share agreements, exclusive of $126.5 million we will owe the FDIC for settlement of the contingent payments.The loss share agreements are subject to differing interpretations by the FDIC and FCB; therefore, disagreements may arise regarding coverage of losses, expenses and contingencies. Additionally, losses that are currently projected to occur during the loss share term may not occur until after the expiration of the applicable agreement and those losses could have a material impact on the results of operations in future periods. The carrying value of the FDIC receivable includes only those losses that we project to occur during the loss share period and for which we believe we will receive reimbursement from the FDIC at the applicable reimbursement rate.The value of our goodwill may decline in the futureAs of December 31, 2015, we had $139.8 million of goodwill recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value. We also test goodwill for impairment when certain events occur, such as a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, or a sustained decline in the price of our common stock. These tests may result in a write-off of goodwill deemed to be impaired, which could have a significant impact on our financial results; any such write-off would not impact our regulatory capital ratios, however, given that regulatory capital ratios are calculated using tangible capital amounts.Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio We maintain an allowance for loan losses that is designed to cover losses on loans that borrowers may not repay in their entirety. We believe that we maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date, and in compliance with applicable accounting and regulatory guidance. However, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Accounting measurements related to impairment and the allowance 11require significant estimates that are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. The significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to conduct their businesses successfully through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, and other factors complicate our estimates of the risk and/or amount of loss on any loan. Due to the degree of uncertainty and the susceptibility to change, the actual losses may vary from current estimates. We expect fluctuations in the allowance due to the uncertain economic conditions.As an integral part of their examination process, our banking regulators periodically review the allowance and may require us to increase it for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense or to decrease the allowance by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such required additional loan loss provisions or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.BancShares has been monitoring the impact of the October 2015 flooding in South Carolina. We have assessed how this situation may impact our customers and the areas in which they operate. However, we have not identified any significant impact to the credit quality of the loans in these areas that would cause us to adjust the allowance for loan losses.Economic conditions in real estate markets and our reliance on junior liens may adversely impact our business and our results of operations Real property collateral values may be impacted by economic conditions in the real estate market and may result in losses on loans that, while adequately collateralized at the time of origination, become inadequate. Our reliance on junior liens is concentrated in our non-commercial revolving mortgage loan portfolio. Approximately two-thirds of the revolving mortgage portfolio is secured by junior lien positions and lower real estate values for collateral underlying these loans may cause the outstanding balance of the senior lien to exceed the value of the collateral, resulting in a junior lien loan that is in effect unsecured. Inadequate collateral values, rising interest rates and unfavorable economic conditions could result in greater delinquency, write-downs or charge-offs in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and capital adequacy.Our concentration of loans to borrowers within the medical industry could impair our revenue if that industry experiences economic difficultiesIf regulatory changes (e.g., Affordable Care Act) in the market negatively impact the borrowers' businesses and their ability to repay their loans with us, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to increase our allowance for loan losses through provisions for loan loss on our income statement that would reduce reported net income.Our concentration of credit exposure in loans to dental practices could increase credit riskDentists and dental practices generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, and generally have a heightened vulnerability to negative economic conditions. If economic conditions in the market negatively impact the borrowers’ businesses and their ability to repay their loans with us, this could have a material adverse effect on BancShares’ financial condition and results of operations.Our financial performance depends upon our ability to attract and retain clients for our products and services, which ability may be adversely impacted by weakened consumer and/or business confidence, and by any inability on our part to predict and satisfy customers’ needs and demandsOur financial performance is subject to risks associated with the loss of client confidence and demand. A fragile or weakening economy, or ambiguity surrounding the economic future, may lessen the demand for our products and services. Our performance may also be negatively impacted if we should fail to attract and retain customers because we are not able to successfully anticipate, develop and market products and services that satisfy market demands. Such events could impact our performance through fewer loans, reduced fee income, and fewer deposits, each of which could result in reduced net income. Our business is highly quantitative and requires widespread use of financial models for day-to-day operations; these models may produce inaccurate predictions that significantly vary from actual resultsWe rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Such models may be used in many processes including, but not limited to, the pricing of various products and services, classifications of loans, setting interest rates on loans and deposits, quantifying interest rate and other market risks, forecasting losses, measuring capital adequacy, and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels. Models may also be used to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Inaccurate or erroneous models present the risk that business decisions relying on the models will prove inefficient or ineffective. Additionally, information we provide to our investors and regulators may be negatively impacted by 12inaccurately designed or implemented models. For further information on models, see the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.We face significant operational risks in our businessesSafely conducting and growing our business requires that we create and maintain an appropriate operational and organizational control infrastructure. Operational risk can arise in numerous ways, including employee fraud, customer fraud, and control lapses in bank operations and information technology. Our dependence on our employees, and internal and third party automated systems, to record and process transactions may further increase the risk that technical failures or system-tampering will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. Failure to maintain appropriate operational infrastructure and oversight can lead to loss of service to customers, legal actions and noncompliance with various laws and regulations. We have implemented internal controls to safeguard and maintain our operational and organizational infrastructure and information.Failure to maintain effective systems of internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition and disclosuresWe must have effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud, and to operate successfully as a public company. If we were unable to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As part of our ongoing monitoring of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies requiring remediation. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.We continually work to improve our internal controls; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure appropriate and adequate controls over our future financial processes and reporting. Any failure to maintain effective controls or to timely implement any necessary improvement of our internal controls could, among other things, result in losses from fraud or error, harm our reputation, or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the market value of our common stock.Breaches of our and our vendor's information security systems could expose us to hacking and the loss of customer information, which could damage our business reputation and expose us to significant liabilityWe maintain and transmit large amounts of sensitive information electronically, including personal and financial information of our customers. In addition to our own systems, we also rely on external vendors to provide certain services and are, therefore, exposed to their information security risks. While we seek to mitigate internal and external information security risks, the volume of business conducted through electronic devices continues to grow, and our computer systems and network infrastructure, as well as the systems of external vendors and customers, present security risks including susceptibility to hacking and/or identity theft.We are also subject to risks arising from a broad range of attacks by doing business on the internet, which arise from both domestic and international sources and seek to obtain customer information for fraudulent purposes or, in some cases, to disrupt business activities. Information security risks could result in reputational damage and lead to a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and financial results of operations.We may not be able to utilize technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market, and deliver new products and services to our customersThe continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, smart phones and other mobile devices, requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. The increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and non-bank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services may require us to further incur substantial expense. We may be unsuccessful at developing or introducing new products or services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing customer preferences, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base or offering products and services at prices and service levels competitive with those offered by our non-bank and bank competitors. These risks may affect our ability to grow and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues generated by our net interest margins. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 13Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our businessOur business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our banking operations are locally oriented and community-based. Our retail and commercial banking activities are primarily concentrated within the same geographic footprint. Our markets include the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and Western United States, with our deepest presence in North Carolina and South Carolina. Worsening economic conditions within our markets, particularly within North Carolina and South Carolina, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. Unfavorable changes in unemployment, real estate values, interest rates and other factors could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. In recent years, economic growth and business activity across a wide range of industries has been slow and uneven and there can be no assurance that economic conditions will continue to improve, and these conditions could worsen. In addition, oil price volatility, the level of U.S. debt and global economic conditions have had a destabilizing effect on financial markets. Weakness in any of our market areas could have an adverse impact on our earnings, and consequently our financial condition and capital adequacy. Our business and financial performance could be impacted by natural disasters, acts of war or terrorist activitiesNatural disasters (including but not limited to earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, explosions), acts of war and terrorist activities could hurt our performance (i) directly through damage to our facilities or other impact to our ability to conduct business in the ordinary course, and (ii) indirectly through such damage or impacts to our customers, suppliers or other counterparties. In particular, a significant amount of our business is concentrated in North Carolina and South Carolina, including in coastal areas where our retail and commercial customers could be impacted by hurricanes. We could also suffer adverse results to the extent that disasters, wars or terrorist activities affect the broader markets or economy. Our ability to minimize the consequences of such events is in significant measure reliant on the quality of our disaster recovery planning and our ability, if any, to forecast the events. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain skilled employeesOur success depends to a great extent on our ability to attract and retain key employees. Competition is intense for employees whom we believe will be successful in developing and attracting new business and/or managing critical support functions. We may not be able to hire the best employees or, if successful, retain them after their employment.We rely on external vendorsThird party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, including certain data processing and information services. A number of our vendors are large national entities with dominant market presence in their respective fields, and their services could be difficult to quickly replace in the event of failure or other interruption in service. Failures of certain vendors to provide services could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. External vendors also present information security risks. We monitor vendor risks, including the financial stability of critical vendors. The failure of a critical external vendor could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant expense.Accounting standards may change and increase our operating costs and/or otherwise adversely affect our resultsThe Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission periodically modify the standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. The nature of these changes is not predictable and could impact how we record transactions in our financial statements, which could lead to material changes in assets, liabilities, shareholders’ equity, revenues, expenses and net income. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised standards retroactively, resulting in changes to previously-reported financial results or a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. Application of new accounting rules or standards could require us to implement costly technology changes.Certain provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you might consider to be in your best interestsCertain provisions contained in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management. The provisions could also delay or make more difficult a tender offer, merger, or proxy contest that you might consider to be in your best interests. For example, the Certificate of Incorporation and/or Bylaws:•allow our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred shares without further shareholder approval;•limit who can call a special meeting of shareholders; and14•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors and proposals of other business to be considered at annual meetings of shareholders. These provisions, as well as provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act and other relevant statutes and regulations which require advance notice and/or applications for regulatory approval of changes in control of banks and bank holding companies, and additionally the fact that the Holding family holds or controls shares representing a majority of the voting power of our common stock, may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.The market price of our stock may be volatileAlthough publicly traded, our common stock has less liquidity and public float than other large publicly traded financial services companies. Low liquidity increases the price volatility of our stock and could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell or buy our common stock at specific prices.Excluding the impact of liquidity, the market price of our common stock can fluctuate widely in response to other factors including expectations of financial and operating results, actual operating results, actions of institutional shareholders, speculation in the press or the investment community, market perception of acquisitions, rating agency upgrades or downgrades, stock prices of other companies that are similar to us, general market expectations related to the financial services industry, and the potential impact of government actions affecting the financial services industry.We rely on dividends from FCBAs a financial holding company, we are a separate legal entity from FCB. We derive most of our revenue and cash flow from dividends paid by FCB. These dividends are the primary source on which we pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt obligations. State and federal laws impose restrictions on the dividends that FCB may pay to us. In the event FCB is unable to pay dividends to us for an extended period of time, we may not be able to service our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock.We are subject to litigation risks, and our expenses related to litigation may adversely affect our resultsWe are subject to litigation risks in the ordinary course of our business. Claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, that may be initiated against us from time to time could involve large monetary sums and significant defense costs. During the last credit crisis, we saw both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. The outcomes of such cases are always uncertain until finally adjudicated or resolved.We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and our liability can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual amount paid in resolution of a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for the matter. The ultimate resolution of a legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and any relief granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Substantial legal claims or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured legal liabilities and/or regulatory actions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information, see Note U, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.