Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are a number of other factors associated with our business that could adversely affect our business. The following discussion describes the material risks currently known to us. However, additional risks that we do not know about or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect the value of our securities. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this report. 18 Table of Contents Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have negatively affected our financial results and could do so in the future. Our revenues, operating results, cash flow and future rate of growth depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Any decline in prices in the future would have a negative impact on our future financial results. Because our oil and natural gas reserves are predominantly natural gas, significant changes in natural gas prices would have a particularly large impact on our financial results. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • political conditions in oil producing regions, including the Middle East, Nigeria and Venezuela; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree on prices and their ability to maintain production quotas; • the price of foreign oil imports • actions of governmental authorities; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • U.S. storage levels of natural gas; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign government regulations; • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; and • overall economic conditions. These factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it impossible to predict with any certainty the future prices of oil and natural gas. Our contract drilling operations depend on levels of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry. Our contract drilling operations depend on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration and production in our operating markets. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of that activity. Because oil and natural gas prices are volatile, the level of exploration and production activity can also be volatile. Any decrease from current oil and natural gas prices would depress the level of exploration and production activity. This, in turn, would likely result in a decline in the demand for our drilling services and would have an adverse effect on our contract drilling revenues, cash flows and profitability. As a result, the future demand for our drilling services is uncertain. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The drilling industry in which we operate is generally very competitive. Most drilling contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which may result in intense price competition. Many of our competitors in the contract drilling industry have greater financial and human resources than we do. These resources may enable them to better withstand periods of low drilling rig utilization, to compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, to build new drilling rigs or acquire existing drilling rigs and to provide drilling rigs more quickly than we do in periods of high drilling rig utilization. 19 Table of Contents The oil and natural gas industry is also highly competitive. We compete in the areas of property acquisitions and oil and natural gas exploration, development, production and marketing with major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. In addition, we must compete with major and independent oil and natural gas concerns in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. Many of our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Shortages of experienced personnel for our contract drilling operations could limit our ability to meet the demand for our services. During periods of increasing demand for contract drilling services, the industry experiences shortages of qualified drilling rig personnel. During these periods, our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to market and operate our drilling rigs is adversely affected which negatively impacts both our operations and profitability. Operationally, it is more difficult to hire qualified personnel, which adversely affects our ability to mobilize inactive drilling rigs in response to the increased demand for our contract drilling services. Additionally, wage rates for drilling personnel are likely to increase, resulting in greater operating costs. Shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts and other related drilling rig equipment adversely affect our operating results. During periods of increased demand for drilling services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts and other related drilling rig equipment. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. These price increases and delays in delivery may require us to increase capital and repairs expenditures in our contract drilling segment. Severe shortages could impair our ability to operate our drilling rigs. Continued growth through acquisitions is not assured. We have increased our drilling rig fleet, as well as our exploration, production and natural gas gathering and processing operations, over the past several years through mergers and acquisitions. The land drilling industry, the exploration and development industry, as well as the gas gathering and processing industry, have experienced significant consolidation over the past several years, and there can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will continue to be available. Additionally, we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other companies for available acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will: • have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions; • successfully integrate acquired operations and assets; • effectively manage the growth and increased size; • maintain the crews and market share to operate any future drilling rigs we may acquire; or • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects in any material manner as a result of any completed acquisition. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with any acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity would be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and other resources. Successful acquisitions, particularly those of oil and natural gas companies or of oil and natural gas properties require an assessment of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. 20 Table of Contents Our operations have significant capital requirements, and our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience substantial working capital needs because of our growth in drilling operations and our active exploration and development programs. On February 22, 2006, our long-term debt outstanding was $104.4 million. Our level of indebtedness, the cash flow needed to satisfy our indebtedness and the covenants governing our indebtedness could: • limit funds available for financing capital expenditures, our drilling program or other activities or cause us to curtail these activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our competitors that are less leveraged than we are; • make us more vulnerable during periods of low oil and natural gas prices or in the event of a downturn in our business; and • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities. Our ability to meet our debt service and other contractual and contingent obligations will depend on our future performance. In addition, lower oil and natural gas prices could result in future reductions in the amount available for borrowing under our credit facility, reducing our liquidity and even triggering mandatory loan repayments. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, resulting eventually in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flow from operations. Historically, we have succeeded in increasing reserves after taking production into account through exploration and development. We have conducted these activities on our existing oil and natural gas properties as well as on newly acquired properties. We may not be able to continue to replace reserves from these activities at acceptable costs. Lower prices of oil and natural gas may further limit the kinds of reserves that can economically be developed. Lower prices also decrease our cash flow and may cause us to decrease capital expenditures. We are continually identifying and evaluating opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties, including acquisitions that would be significantly larger than those consummated to date by us. We cannot assure you that we will successfully consummate any acquisition, that we will be able to acquire producing oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that any acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. The competition for producing oil and natural gas properties is intense. This competition could mean that to acquire properties we will have to pay higher prices and accept greater ownership risks than we have in the past. Our exploration and production operations involve a high degree of business and financial risk which could adversely affect us. Exploration and development involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and natural gas in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain. Numerous factors beyond our control may cause the curtailment, delay or cancellation of drilling operations, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; 21 Table of Contents • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; and • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or delivery crews and the delivery of equipment. Exploratory drilling is a speculative activity. Although we may disclose our overall drilling success rate, those rates may decline. Although we may discuss drilling prospects that we have identified or budgeted for, we may ultimately not lease or drill these prospects within the expected time frame, or at all. Lack of drilling success will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. Our natural gas gathering and processing operations involve a high degree of business risk which could adversely affect us. Our natural gas gathering and processing operations involve numerous risks that may result in the failure to recover our cost in the natural gas gathering and processing facilities. The cost of developing the gathering systems and processing plants is substantial and uncertain. Our operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of many things beyond our control, including: • unexpected changes in the deliverability of natural gas reserves from the wells connected to the gathering systems; • availability of connecting pipelines in the area; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with governmental requirements; • delays in the development of other producing properties within the gathering system’s area of operation; and • demand for natural gas and its constituents. Many of the wells from which we gather and process natural gas are operated by other parties. As a result, we have little control over the operations of those wells which can act to increase our risk. Operators of those wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. Our hedging arrangements might limit the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. In order to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas, we sometimes enter into hedging arrangements. Our hedging arrangements apply to only a portion of our production and provide only partial price protection against declines in oil and natural gas prices. These hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss and limit the benefit to us of increases in prices. Estimates of our reserves are uncertain and may prove to be inaccurate, and oil and natural gas price declines may lead to an impairment of our oil and natural gas assets. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve data represents only estimates. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves depend on a number of variable factors, including historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, and assumptions concerning: • the effects of regulations by governmental agencies; 22 Table of Contents • future oil and natural gas prices; • future operating costs; • severance and excise taxes; • development costs; and • workover and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows from reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and those variances may be material. The information regarding discounted future net cash flows should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by the following factors: • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • increases or decreases in consumption; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. In addition, the 10% per year discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties under the full cost accounting rules of the SEC. Under these rules, capitalized costs of proved oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves, discounted at 10% per year. Application of the ceiling test generally requires pricing future revenue at the unescalated prices in effect as of the end of each fiscal quarter and requires a write-down for accounting purposes if the ceiling is exceeded, even if prices were depressed for only a short period of time. We may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to earnings, but would not impact cash flow from operating activities. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date. Our operations present inherent risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations. Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling industry, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather. Our exploration and production and gas gathering and processing operations are subject to these and similar risks. Any of these events could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage and damage to the property of others. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling 23 Table of Contents company and its customer, and we seek to obtain indemnification from our drilling customers by contract for some of these risks. To the extent that we are unable to transfer these risks to drilling customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we seek protection from some of these risks through insurance. However, some risks are not covered by insurance and we cannot assure you that the insurance we do have or the indemnification agreements we have entered into will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that insurance will be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, the insurance might not be adequate to cover all of our losses, or we might decide against obtaining that insurance because of high premiums or other costs. In addition, we are not the operator of many of our wells. As a result, our operating risks for those wells and our ability to influence the operations for those wells are less subject to our control. Operators of those wells may act in ways that are not in our best interests. Governmental and environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and marketing of oil and natural gas and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste, unitization and pooling of properties and other matters. These laws and regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the allowable production from successful wells, which could limit our revenues. We are also subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various jurisdictions where we own or operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge these materials into the environment in any number of ways including the following: • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; • from gathering systems, pipelines, transportation facilities and storage tanks; • damage to oil and natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and • blowouts, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by the former operators, which liability could be material. Any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. The recent high prices experienced in the United States for natural gas and for oil have resulted in efforts by certain groups to have the United States Congress impose some form of price controls on either natural gas, oil or both. There is no way at this time to know what result these efforts will have nor, if implemented, their effect on our operations. However, it is possible that these efforts, if successful, would serve to limit the amount that we might be able to get for our future oil and natural gas production. Any future limits on the price of oil and natural gas could also result in adversely affecting the demand for our drilling services. 24 Table of Contents Our stockholders’ rights plan and provisions of Delaware law and our by-laws and charter could discourage change in control transactions and prevent stockholders from receiving a premium on their investment. Our by-laws and charter provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms and authorizes the board of directors to set the terms of preferred stock. In addition, our charter and Delaware law contain provisions that impose restrictions on business combinations with interested parties. We have also adopted a stockholders’ rights plan. Because of our stockholders’ rights plan and these provisions of our by-laws, charter and Delaware law, persons considering unsolicited tender offers or other unilateral takeover proposals may be more likely to negotiate with our board of directors rather than pursue non-negotiated takeover attempts. As a result, these provisions may make it more difficult for our stockholders to benefit from transactions that are opposed by an incumbent board of directors. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our production. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete, and we may be adversely affected. The results of our operations depend on our ability to transport oil and gas production to key markets. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems. The unavailability of or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. During 2005, we derived a significant portion of our contract drilling revenues from a small number of customers. The loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2005, our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 44% of our contract drilling revenues. Chesapeake Operating, Inc. was our largest customer providing 10% of our total contract drilling revenues. These customers may not continue to employ our services and the loss of any or a number of these large customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If oil and natural gas prices decrease or are unusually volatile, we may be required to take write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties, the carrying value of our drilling rigs or natural gas gathering and processing systems. According to the full cost accounting rules of the SEC, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties when oil and natural gas prices are depressed or unusually volatile. If a write-down is required, it would result in a charge to our earnings. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible. 25 Table of Contents Our drilling equipment, transportation equipment, gas gathering and processing systems and other property and equipment are carried at cost. We are required to periodically test to see if these values have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If any of these assets are determined to be impaired, the loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. An estimate of fair value is based on the best information available, including prices for similar assets. Changes in these estimates could cause us to reduce the carrying value of property and equipment. Once these values have been reduced, they are not reversible. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 