ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors set forth below are applicable to us. You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating us and our operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely affect, among other things, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will be adversely affected if there is a decline in the number of motion pictures available for screening or in the appeal of motion pictures to our patrons. Our business depends to a substantial degree on the availability of suitable motion pictures for screening in our theatres and the appeal of such motion pictures to patrons in our specific theatre markets. Our results of operations will vary from period to period based upon the number and popularity of the motion pictures we show in our theatres. A disruption in the production of motion pictures by, or a reduction in the marketing efforts of, the major studios and/or independent producers, a lack of motion pictures, the poor performance of motion pictures in general or the failure of motion pictures to attract the patrons in our theatre markets will likely adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our substantial lease and debt obligations could impair our financial flexibility and our competitive position. We now have, and will continue to have, significant debt obligations. Our long-term debt obligations consist of the following: • a term loan in the aggregate amount of $237.5 million outstanding as of December 31, 2010; • a revolving credit facility providing for borrowings of up to $30.0 million, of which no amounts were outstanding as of December 31, 2010; and • financing obligations of $175.1 million as of December 31, 2010 inclusive of interest but net of $62.8 million which is expected to be settled through non-cash consideration consisting of property subject to financing obligations. Our long-term debt obligations mature as follows: • the final maturity date of revolving credit facility is January 27, 2013; and • the final maturity date of term loans is January 27, 2016. The term loan borrowings are to be repaid in 19 consecutive quarterly installments, each in the amount of $600 thousand, with the balance of $226.1 million due at final maturity on January 27, 2016. Any amounts that may become outstanding under our revolving credit facility would be due and payable on January 27, 2013. We also have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. As of December 31, 2010, our total operating, capital and financing lease obligations with terms over one year totaled $642.5 million. These obligations could have important consequences for us. For example, they could: • limit our ability to obtain necessary financing in the future and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our lease and debt obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our lease and debt obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate requirements; • make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business and limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that might have stronger balance sheets or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets or renovate our theatres. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to meet our lease and debt obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, to seek additional equity financing or to sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. In particular, the current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our existing obligations, obtain additional financing, or raise additional capital. As a result, we could default on our lease or debt obligations. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our needs. Our ability to service our indebtedness and to fund potential acquisitions and capital expenditures for theatre construction, expansion or renovation will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay the interest on or to refinance our indebtedness is subject to general industry economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, and may be limited because of our current leverage. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining financing for new development on terms that we find attractive. Traditional sources of financing new theatres through landlords may be unavailable. The opening of large multiplexes by our competitors and the opening of newer theatres with stadium seating in certain of our markets have led us to reassess a number of our theatre locations to determine whether to renovate or to dispose of underperforming locations. Further advances in theatre design may also require us to make substantial capital expenditures in the future or to close older theatres that cannot be economically renovated in order to compete with new developments in theatre design. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth will be realized or that future capital will be available for us to fund our capital expenditure needs. Our business is subject to significant competitive pressures. Large multiplex theatres, which we and some of our competitors built, have tended to and are expected to continue to draw audiences away from certain older theatres, including some of our theatres. In addition, demographic changes and competitive pressures can lead to the impairment of a theatre. Over the last several years, we and many of our competitors have closed a number of theatres. Our competitors or smaller entrepreneurial developers may purchase or lease these abandoned buildings and reopen them as theatres in competition with us. We face varying degrees of competition from other motion picture exhibitors with respect to licensing films, attracting customers, obtaining new theatre sites and acquiring theatre circuits. In those areas where real estate is readily available, there are few barriers preventing competing companies from opening theatres near one of our existing theatres. Competitors have built and are planning to build theatres in certain areas in which we operate. In the past, these developments have resulted and may continue to result in excess capacity in those areas, adversely affecting attendance and pricing at our theatres in those areas. Even where we are the only exhibitor in a film licensing zone (and therefore do not compete for films), we still may experience competition for patrons from theatres in neighboring zones. There have also been a number of consolidations in the film exhibition industry, and the impact of these consolidations could have an adverse effect on our business if greater size would give larger operators an advantage in negotiating licensing terms. Our theatres also compete with a number of other motion picture delivery systems including network, cable and satellite television, DVD’s, as well as video-on-demand, pay-per-view services and downloads via the Internet. While the impact of these alternative types of motion picture delivery systems on the motion picture exhibition industry is difficult to determine precisely, there is a risk that they could adversely affect attendance at motion pictures shown in theatres. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to attract patrons is also affected by (1) the DVD release window, which is the time between the release of a film for play in theatres and when the film is available on DVD for general public sale or rental and (2) the video-on-demand release window, which is the time between the release of a film for play in theatres and when the film is available on video-on-demand services for public viewing. Each of these release windows has been narrowing over the past several years. For example, we believe the DVD and video-on-demand release windows currently average approximately four months. It is also possible that these release windows could shorten in the near future. If these release windows continue to shorten, it might impact our ability to attract patrons to our theatres. Future release windows may also shorten with the introduction of premium video-on-demand (“premium VOD”). Premium VOD would allow movie studios to make movies available to customers at an increased price as soon as 30-60 days after release to the theatres. To date, few titles have been released through premium VOD. However, if movie studios increase the number of titles released with premium VOD, it might decrease our ability to draw patrons to our theatres. Theatres also face competition from a variety of other forms of entertainment competing for the public’s leisure time and disposable income, including sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. Our revenues vary significantly depending upon the timing of the motion picture releases by distributors. Our business is seasonal, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues generated during the summer months and year-end holiday season. While motion picture distributors have begun to release major motion pictures more evenly throughout the year, the most marketable motion pictures are usually released during the summer months and the year-end holiday season, and we usually generate more revenue and cash flows during those periods than in other periods during the year. As a result, the timing of motion picture releases affects our results of operations, which may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. If we do not adequately manage our theatre costs of operations, it could significantly affect our cash flow and potential for future growth. We have a limited time window to maintain a competitive edge in 3-D deployment. We have invested a significant amount of resources into becoming a leading motion picture exhibitor in 3-D. Other exhibitors, which have experienced delays in upgrading their screens to digital and 3-D capability, continue to upgrade their screens with digital and 3-D capability. Therefore, we have a limited window to maintain our position as a leader in digital and 3-D screen count. This may adversely affect our ability to generate additional revenue from the digital and 3-D movie experience in the future. If we do not comply with the covenants in our credit agreement or otherwise default under the credit agreement, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all amounts that could become due. Our ability to service our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate this cash will depend largely on future operations. Based upon our current level of operations and our 2011 business plan, we believe that cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our credit agreement will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the next 12 months. However, the possibility exists that, if our operating performance is worse than expected, we could come into default under our debt instruments, causing the agents to accelerate maturity and declare all payments immediately due and payable. The following are some factors that could affect our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations: • further substantial declines in box office attendance, as a result of a continued general economic downturn, competition and a lack of consumers’ acceptance of the movie products in our markets; and • inability to achieve targeted admissions and concessions price increases, due to competition in our markets. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to a number of covenants contained in our January 27, 2010 credit agreement, as amended, which restrict our ability, among other things, to: pay dividends; incur additional indebtedness; create liens on our assets; make certain investments; sell or otherwise dispose of our assets; consolidate, merge or otherwise transfer all or any substantial part of our assets; enter into transactions with our affiliates; and make capital expenditures. The credit agreement, as amended, also contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a ratio of funded debt to adjusted EBITDA (“leverage ratio”) below a specified maximum ratio, a ratio of adjusted EBITDA to interest expense (“interest coverage ratio”) above a specified minimum ratio, and a ratio of total adjusted debt (adjusted for certain leases and financing obligations) to EBITDA plus rental expense (“EBITDAR ratio”) below a specified maximum ratio. Due to the impact on our EBITDA resulting from significant declines in attendance in the fourth quarter of 2010 and early 2011, on March 3, 2011, we entered into a first amendment to the credit agreement which adjusted these financial covenants. The financial covenants, as amended, are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Agreement and Covenant Compliance.” It is possible that we may not comply with some or all of our financial covenants in the future. We could seek waivers or amendments to the senior secured credit agreement in order to avoid non-compliance. However, we can provide no assurance that we will successfully obtain such waivers or amendments from our lenders if necessary. The failure to comply with such covenants may result in an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, in which case, the lenders may terminate the revolving credit facility and may declare all or any portion of the obligations under the revolving credit facility and the term loan facilities due and payable. In such event, we would be required to raise additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms or at all. In such event, our financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Deterioration in our relationships with any of the major film distributors could adversely affect our access to commercially successful films and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business depends to a significant degree on maintaining good relationships with the major film distributors that license films to our theatres. Deterioration in our relationships with any of the major film distributors could adversely affect our access to commercially successful films and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, because the distribution of motion pictures is in large part regulated by federal and state antitrust laws and has been the subject of numerous antitrust cases, we cannot ensure a supply of motion pictures by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. Rather, we must compete for licenses on a film-by-film and theatre-by-theatre basis and are required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre individually. Negative economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results by reducing amounts consumers spend on attending movies and purchasing concessions. Our business depends on consumers voluntarily spending discretionary funds on leisure activities. Movie theatre attendance and concessions sales may be affected by prolonged negative trends in the general economy that adversely affect consumer spending. Our customers may have less money for discretionary purchases because of negative economic conditions such as job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, sharply falling home prices, reduced availability of credit and other matters, resulting in a decrease in consumer spending or causing consumers to shift their spending to alternative forms of entertainment. This may affect the demand for movies or severely impact the motion picture production industry such that our business and operations could be adversely affected. Labor disputes in the motion picture industry may adversely affect our business. Any disruption in the production or distribution of motion pictures related to disputes between film producers and film actors or other labor disputes in the motion picture industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We rely heavily on IQ-2000, our proprietary computer system, to operate our business and a failure of this system could harm our business. We depend on IQ-2000, our proprietary computer system, to operate our business and issue tickets to patrons at our theatres. A substantial system failure could restrict our ability to issue tickets timely to our patrons and could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our patrons to attend another theatre. In addition, we rely on IQ-2000 to centralize most theatre-level administrative functions at our corporate headquarters such as coordinating payroll, tracking theatre invoices, generating operating reports to analyze film performance and theatre profitability, and generating information to quickly detect theft. Disruption in, changes to, or a breach of the IQ-2000 system could result in the loss of important data, an increase of our expenses and a possible temporary cessation of our operations. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance. Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key employee could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements for senior management or key employees on acceptable terms. Compliance with the ADA could require us to incur significant capital expenditures and litigation costs in the future. The ADA and certain state statutes and local ordinances, among other things, require that places of public accommodation, including both existing and newly constructed theatres, be accessible to customers with disabilities. The ADA requires that theatres be constructed to permit persons with disabilities full use of a theatre and its facilities. The ADA may also require that certain modifications be made to existing theatres in order to make them accessible to patrons and employees who are disabled. We are aware of several lawsuits that have been filed against other motion picture exhibitors by disabled moviegoers alleging that certain stadium seating designs violated the ADA. If we fail to comply with the ADA, remedies could include imposition of injunctive relief, fines, awards for damages to private litigants and additional capital expenditures to remedy non-compliance. Imposition of significant fines, damage awards or capital expenditures to cure non-compliance could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to other federal, state and local laws which limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. Our theatre operations are subject to federal, state and local laws governing matters such as construction, renovation and operation of our theatres as well as wages, working conditions, citizenship and health and sanitation requirements and licensing. While we believe that our theatres are in material compliance with these requirements, we cannot predict the extent to which any future laws or regulations that regulate employment matters will impact our operations. At December 31, 2010, approximately 58% of our hourly employees were paid at the federal minimum wage and, accordingly, the minimum wage largely determines our labor costs for those employees. Increases in the minimum wage will increase our labor costs. We may be limited in our ability to utilize, or may not be able to utilize, net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future tax liability. As of December 31, 2010 after applying Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) Section 382 limitations, we had $28.0 million of federal and state operating loss carryforwards with which to offset our future taxable income. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in the year 2020. If these loss carryforwards are unavailable for our use in future periods, this may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We experienced an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during the fourth quarter of 2008. The ownership change has and will continue to subject our net operating loss carryforwards to an annual limitation, which will significantly restrict our ability to use them to offset our taxable income in periods following the ownership change. In general, the annual use limitation equals the aggregate value of our stock at the time of the ownership change multiplied by a specified tax-exempt interest rate. We determined that at the date of the ownership change, we had a net unrealized built-in loss (“NUBIL”). The NUBIL was determined based on the difference between the fair market value of our assets and their tax basis as of the ownership change date. Because of the NUBIL, certain deductions recognized during the five-year period beginning on the date of the IRC Section 382 ownership change (the “recognition period”) are subject to the same limitation as the net operating loss carryforwards. The amount of disallowed RBILs could increase if the Company disposes of assets with built-in losses at the ownership change date within the recognition period. Disruption of our relationship with our primary concession suppliers could harm our margins on concessions. We purchase substantially all of our concession supplies, except for beverage supplies, as well as janitorial supplies from Showtime Concession, and we are by far its largest customer. In return for our concession supplies, we pay Showtime Concession at contractual prices that are based on the type of concession supplied. Our current agreement with Showtime Concession will expire on December 31, 2012. If this relationship were disrupted, we could be forced to negotiate a number of substitute arrangements with alternative vendors which are likely to be, in the aggregate, less favorable to us than the current arrangement. We purchase most of our beverage supplies from The Coca-Cola Company. Our current agreement with The Coca-Cola Company expires on December 31, 2013. Under the agreement, The Coca-Cola Company may raise beverage supply costs up to 10% annually through the term of the agreement. Our margins on concessions revenue may decline to the extent we are unable to pass on increases in our concession costs to our customers in a rate at or near the rate of cost increases. Our development of new theatres poses a number of risks. We plan to continue to expand our operations through the development of new theatres and the expansion of existing theatres. However, we anticipate our development activities in 2011 will be limited to two theatres. Developing new theatres requires a significant amount of time and resources and poses a number of risks. Construction of new theatres may result in cost overruns, delays or unanticipated expenses related to zoning or tax laws. Contractors may have difficulty in obtaining financing for construction. Desirable sites for new theatres may be unavailable or expensive, and the markets in which new theatres are located may deteriorate over time. Additionally, the market potential of new theatre sites cannot be precisely determined, and our theatres may face competition in new markets from unexpected sources. Newly constructed theatres may not perform up to our expectations. We face significant competition for potential theatre locations and for opportunities to acquire existing theatres and theatre circuits. Consequently, we may be unable to add to our theatre circuit on terms we consider acceptable. If we determine that assets are impaired, we will be required to recognize a charge to earnings. The opening of large multiplexes and theatres with stadium seating by us and certain of our competitors has tended to, and is expected to continue to, draw audiences away from certain older theatres, including some of our theatres. In addition, demographic changes and competitive pressures can lead to the impairment of a theatre. We perform our theatre impairment analysis at the individual theatre level, the lowest level of independent, identifiable cash flow. We review all available evidence when assessing long-lived assets for potential 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements impairment, including negative trends in theatre-level cash flow, the impact of competition, the age of the theatre and alternative uses of the assets. Our evaluation of negative trends in theatre-level cash flow considers seasonality of the business, with significant revenues and cash-flow being generated in the summer and year-end holiday season. Absent any unusual circumstances, we evaluate new theatres for potential impairment only after such theatres have been open and operational for a sufficient period of time to allow the market to mature. When an impairment indicator or triggering event has occurred, we estimate future, undiscounted theatre-level cash flow using assumptions based on historical performance and our internal budgets and projections, adjusted for market specific facts and circumstances. If the undiscounted cash flow is not sufficient to support recovery of the asset group’s carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded in the amount by which the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value of the asset group. Fair value is determined primarily by discounting the estimated future cash flow, at a rate commensurate with the related risk. Significant judgment is required in estimating future cash flow, and significant assumptions include future attendance, admissions and concessions price increases, and film rent and other theatre operating costs. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. We had long-lived asset impairment charges, from our continuing operations, in each of the last five fiscal years totaling $90.4 million. For fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, our impairment charges from our continuing operations were $8.2 million, $17.6 million and $36.1 million, respectively. Our business makes us vulnerable to future fears of terrorism. If future terrorist incidents or threats cause our customers to avoid crowded settings such as theatres, our attendance would be adversely affected. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud and our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the Company. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company not approved by the Board of Directors, even if the change in control were in the stockholders’ interests. Under our certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. While we have no present intention to issue shares of preferred stock, an issuance of preferred stock in the future could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our bylaws provide that the request of stockholders owning 66 2/3% of our capital stock then issued and outstanding and entitled to vote is required for stockholders to request a special meeting. Further, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that could be advantageous to the stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 