Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued economic growth and welfare of our primary market areas. We operate primarily in Eastern Massachusetts. The Bank’s general market areas consist of the municipalities in which it operates banking offices and all of the contiguous cities and towns. Our 15 branch offices are located on a broad arc stretching from Medford and Everett in the south, Dracut in the north, and Westford in the west. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Adverse economic conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographical concentration, we are less able than national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services business in our market is highly competitive. Our competitors include large national and regional banks, local community banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Some of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions, have advantages of scale due to their size, or have cost advantages due to their tax status. These competitive factors may limit our growth and profitability. 29 Table of Contents We may face adverse conditions in the securities markets. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s trading securities portfolio totaled $206.6 million consisting of both debt and equity securities. Fluctuations in interest rates and movements in equity prices may, respectively, result in changes in the fair value of the debt and equity securities in the portfolio. Since the change in fair value of the securities is included in earnings on a recurring basis, this could have an adverse effect on the Company’s earnings. In addition, we have a equity securities available for sale portfolio with a fair value of $4.2 million at December 31, 2007. Due to general market conditions, we may face declines in the fair value of this equity securities portfolio. Since securities gains are a source of revenue for the Bank, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Additionally, in a rising interest rate environment, we may face declines in the fair value of our debt securities available for sale portfolio. The Merger Agreement we entered into with Eastern provides for a number of restrictions on the Company’s ability to conduct its business, including limitations on the Company’s trading securities portfolio. This could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Interest rates and other conditions impact our results of operations. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and the interest rates paid on deposits. Like most banking institutions, our net interest spread and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government, that influence market interest rates and our ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, our assets and liabilities (deposits) will be such that they are affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms, the average duration of our investment securities or the mix of adjustable and fixed rate loans, mortgage-backed securities and various U.S. Treasury and Government agency securities in our portfolio could have a positive or negative effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable and effectively managed, significant fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the U.S. Treasury yield curve and other similar factors may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures that include a review of an applicant’s financial statements, credit history, banking history and verification of income. The majority of the bank’s loan portfolio is invested in residential real estate loans. These mortgage loans are primarily for terms of 10, 12, 15, or 20 years, are generally made to borrowers with significant equity in their homes and therefore represent a lower risk to the Bank. For mortgage loans, we generally obtain an independent appraisal of the subject property. We have a formal lending policy that is approved by the Board of Directors of the Bank that delegates levels of loan approval authority to Bank personnel based upon their expertise and experience. All loans in excess of established limits require approval of the Bank’s Board of Directors. However prudent these procedures may be, they do not eliminate credit risk. 30 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is reviewed quarterly and is maintained at a level considered adequate by management to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, and such losses may exceed current estimates. At December 31, 2007, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.71% and as a percentage of non-performing loans was approximately 688%. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses inherent in the portfolio, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding our allowance for loan losses and the methodology we use to determine an appropriate level of reserves is located in the “Allowance for Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses on Off-Balance Sheet Credit Exposures” section included under Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), NASDAQ and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. Regulations adopted by these agencies govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels, matters of internal control over financial reporting and other aspects of our operations. These regulators possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law or regulation. The laws and regulations applicable to the Company could change at any time and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory spreads. Our employee benefit costs are increasing. Our employee benefit costs, particularly health benefits, have increased significantly in recent years. Additional significant increases in employee benefit costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in accounting principles can have a significant impact on our operations. Changes required by new accounting pronouncements issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) could have a material effect on our reported financial condition or results of operations. We may be facing increased costs when introducing new technology-based services. The cost of technological innovation, which for a while appeared to be decreasing, is in fact increasing due to the cost of security, privacy protection and related expenses. We may incur higher costs when we introduce new technology-based services. This could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to litigation from time to time. From time to time, we are involved as a plaintiff or defendant in various legal actions incident to our business. These could involve claims for monetary damages as well as legal fees. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial coverage in any particular case. As a result, a judgment against us in any such litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our proposed Merger with Eastern Bank Corporation is not completed, our business and stock price may be adversely affected. On March 10, 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Eastern Bank Corporation. The Merger is subject to a number of contingencies, including approval by our stockholders, the receipt of requisite state and federal regulatory approvals, and other customary conditions, each of which must be satisfied or waived prior to the closing. If the Merger is not completed or the completion is substantially delayed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and stock price, including: § Our stock price may fluctuate prior to completion of the Merger due to market assessments regarding the expected timing of the Merger and risks relating to the completion of the Merger, and if the Merger is not completed, our stock price may decline significantly, since the current trading price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed; § We could lose important personnel as a result of the departure of employees who decide to pursue other opportunities in light of the proposed Merger; § We have and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger prior to its closing, including fees paid to an investment bank for a fairness opinion for the Merger, legal fees and accounting fees, which must be paid even if the Merger is not completed; § Depending on the circumstances, we may be obligated to pay Eastern a termination fee of $5.0 million or reimburse $1.0 million of Eastern’s out-of-pocket expenses relating to the Merger Agreement; and § We may experience the additional impacts described in the risk factors below. We plan to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and mail to our stockholders a proxy statement in connection with the Merger (the “Proxy Statement”). The Proxy Statement will contain important information about the Company, Eastern, the transaction and related matters. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION, AS WELL AS ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER. 32 Table of Contents Our proposed Merger with Eastern may adversely affect our results of operations. Uncertainty surrounding the proposed Merger may have an adverse effect on employee morale and retention. In addition, focus on the Merger and related matters have resulted in, and may continue to result in, the diversion of management attention and resources. To the extent that there is uncertainty about the closing of the Merger, or if the Merger does not close, our business may be harmed to the extent that customers, strategic partners or others believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the Merger or there is customer and employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of our service offerings and strategy on a stand-alone basis. Finally, the Merger Agreement imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business prior to the completion of the Merger. Each of these potential impacts, and others, may leave us unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities or may otherwise harm our results of operations going forward. If our proposed Merger with Eastern is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with our proposed Merger with Eastern. The completion of the Merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions. We cannot guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the Merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we would not have realized the expected benefits of the Merger. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days ago or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. 33 Table of Contents 