ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, they are not the only risks relating to our business and our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that are not yet identified or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, perhaps significantly, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Company Risks We may incur losses. We reported net income of approximately $15,672,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to $10,833,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, and a net loss of approximately $1,223,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. We also reported net income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. Our ability to be profitable in the future will depend on many factors beyond our control, but primarily on the level of demand for land-based seismic data acquisition services by oil and natural gas exploration and development companies. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. An economic downturn could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. An economic downturn could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows if our customers, and/or potential customers, become unable to pay or must delay payment of, amounts owing to the Company because such customers are not successful in generating revenues or are precluded from securing necessary financing. 5 Our revenues and operating results can be expected to fluctuate from period to period. Our revenues, operating results, and profitability may fluctuate from period to period. These fluctuations are attributable to the level of new business in a particular period, the timing of the initiation, progress, or cancellation of significant projects, higher revenues and expenses on our dynamite contracts, and costs we incur to train new crews we may add in the future to meet increased customer demand. Fluctuations in our operating results may also be affected by other factors that are outside of our control such as permit delays, weather delays, and crew productivity. Oil and natural gas prices continued to be volatile during the year ended December 31, 2012, and have resulted in demand fluctuations for our services. There can be no assurance of future oil and gas price levels or stability. The demand for our services will be adversely affected by a significant reduction in oil and natural gas prices and by climate change legislation or material changes to U.S. energy policy. Since our business has high fixed costs, the negative effect of one or more of these factors could trigger wide variations in our operating revenues, EBITDA margin, and profitability from quarter to quarter, which factors render quarter-to-quarter comparisons unreliable as an indicator of performance. Due to the factors discussed above, you should not expect sequential growth in our quarterly revenues and profitability. We face intense competition in our business from companies with greater financial resources. The seismic data acquisition services industry is a highly competitive business in the continental U.S. and Canada. Our competitors include companies with financial resources that are significantly greater than our own as well as companies of comparable and smaller size. We are subject to Canadian foreign currency exchange rate risk. We conduct business in Canada which subjects us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our results of operations and our cash flows could be impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Technological change in our business creates risks of technological obsolescence and requirements for future capital expenditures. If we are unable to keep up with these technological advances, we may not be able to compete effectively. Seismic data acquisition technologies historically have steadily improved and progressed, and we expect this progression to continue. Our strategy is to upgrade our seismic data acquisition equipment on a regular basis to maintain our competitive position. However, since we are in a capital intensive industry and have limitations on our ability to obtain the financing necessary to enable us to purchase state-of-the-art equipment, some of our competitors may be able to purchase newer equipment when we may not be able to do so. We are dependent on our management team and key employees, and the loss of any of them could harm our business. We have limited management depth with the result that the loss, whether by death, departure, or illness, of Wayne A. Whitener, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or other senior executives, could have a material adverse effect on the ability of management to continue operations at the same level of efficiency. We have key man insurance on the life of our President and Chief Executive Officer so that, in the event of his untimely death, we would receive insurance proceeds of $1,000,000 under this policy. Certain members of our management team are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements and may leave our employment at any time. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, the President, Vice President of Operations, and the Operations Manager of Eagle Canada, and a salesman, are subject to employment agreements and non-competition agreements. Members of our management team who are not subject to employment or non-competition agreements could leave upon little or no notice, which could have a material adverse effect on our management’s ability to continue operations at the same level of effectiveness. Additionally, the lack of non-competition agreements would allow these members of our management team to immediately begin working for one of our competitors upon the termination of their relationship with us. This could have a negative impact on our strategic plan and our relationships with customers. 6 We extend credit to our customers without requiring collateral, and a default by a customer could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial conditions and, generally, require no collateral from our customers. A default in payment from one of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues for the period involved. Certain of our core assets are pledged as collateral for short term notes that require large monthly payments. Certain assets that are critical to our operations, including eight vibration vehicles, a 5,000 channel OYO Geospace GSR recording system, acquired in 2010, a 5,000 channel GSR system, acquired in 2011, an additional 7,200 channels of GSR equipment acquired in 2012, two GSR Systems with a total of 13,000 channels acquired in 2012, and an 8,000 station GSX system acquired in 2012 are pledged as collateral to our equipment lenders and commercial banks and could be subject to foreclosure in the event that we default on our indebtedness having 36 to 57 month terms. We currently have debt obligations covering the purchase of this equipment that require monthly payments between approximately $50,000 and $223,000. These debt obligations mature at various dates ranging from February of 2013 to January of 2017. Any decline in our operations could inhibit our ability to make these substantial monthly payments. In view of the short terms of these notes, a failure to make the monthly payments on these notes could cause our lenders to foreclose quickly on the assets securing these notes. The foreclosure on certain of our core assets securing these notes could severely limit our ability to continue operations. We may be subject to liability claims that are not covered by our insurance. Our business is subject to the general risks inherent in land-based seismic data acquisition activities. Our activities are often conducted in remote areas under dangerous conditions including the detonation of dynamite. These operations are subject to risks of injury to personnel and damage to equipment. Our crews are mobile, and equipment and personnel are subject to vehicular accidents. These risks could cause us to experience equipment losses, injuries to our personnel, and interruptions in our business. In addition, we could be subject to personal injury or real property damage claims in the normal operation of our business. Such claims may not be covered under the indemnification provisions contained in our general service agreements to the extent that the damage is due to our negligence or intentional misconduct. We do not carry insurance against certain risks that could cause losses, including business interruption resulting from equipment maintenance or weather delays (see “Operating Risks and Insurance”). Our general service agreements require us to have specific amounts of insurance. There can be no assurance, however, that any insurance obtained by us will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities or that this insurance will continue to be available or available on terms which are acceptable to us. Liabilities for which we are not insured, or which exceed the policy limits of our applicable insurance, could have a materially adverse effect on us. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain compliance with Section 404, or if the costs related to maintaining compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price, and results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls in accordance with Section 404, as such standards are amended, supplemented, or modified from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting on an ongoing basis in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing, and/or require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could negatively impact our business, profitability, and financial condition. 7 Industry Risks We and our customers may be adversely affected by an economic downturn. An economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and proposed plan of operations and could lead to further significant fluctuations in the demand for and pricing of oil and gas. Reduced demand and pricing pressures could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our customers and their ability to purchase our services. We are not able to predict the timing, extent, and duration of the economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. We derive nearly all of our revenues from companies in the oil and natural gas exploration and development industry, a historically cyclical industry, with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could adversely impact us in many ways by negatively affecting: · our revenues, cash flows, and profitability; · our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity; · our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and the cost of that capital; and · our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel whom we would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for our services. Worldwide political, economic, and military events have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas exploration and development companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for our services. Oil and natural gas prices have been highly volatile historically and, we believe, will continue to be so in the future. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and natural gas prices including: · the cost of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; · the discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves; · the rate of decline of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; · available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; · the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital; · actions by OPEC (the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries); · political instability in the Middle East and other major oil and natural gas producing regions; · economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere; · domestic and foreign tax policy; · domestic and foreign energy policy including the ever increasing emphasis on alternative sources of energy; · weather conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere; · the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development, and production of their national reserves; · the price of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; and · the overall supply and demand for oil and natural gas. 8 The high fixed costs of our operations could result in operating losses. Companies within our industry are typically subject to high fixed costs which consist primarily of depreciation (a non-cash item) and maintenance expenses associated with seismic data acquisition and equipment and crew costs. In addition, ongoing maintenance capital expenditures, as well as new equipment investment, can be significant. As a result, any extended periods of significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays, or other causes could adversely affect the results of our operations. Our operations are subject to delays related to obtaining land access rights of way from third parties which could affect our results of operations. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to obtain timely right of way usage from both public and private land and/or mineral owners. Delays associated with obtaining such rights of way could negatively affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to government regulation which may adversely affect our future operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and provincial and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and archeological sites and those that may result from climate change legislation. Canadian operations have been historically cyclical due to governmental restrictions on seismic acquisition during certain periods. As a result, there is a risk that there will be a significant amount of unused equipment during those periods. We are required to expend financial and managerial resources to comply with such laws and related permit requirements in our operations, and we anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. Although such expenditures historically have not been material to us, the fact that such laws or regulations change frequently makes it impossible for us to predict the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on our future operations. The adoption of laws and regulations that have the effect of reducing or curtailing exploration and development activities by energy companies could also adversely affect our operations by reducing the demand for our services. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility and low trading volume. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. Overall market conditions, including a decline in oil and natural gas prices and other risks and uncertainties described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. The high and low sales prices of our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2012, were $11.55 and $5.96, respectively. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC under the symbol “TGE.” However, daily trading volumes for our common stock are, and may continue to be, relatively small compared to many other publicly traded securities. For example, during 2012 our daily trading volume was as low as 13,176 shares. It may be difficult for you to sell your shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices, and the price of our common stock may, therefore, be volatile. Our officers and directors own a large percentage of our common stock, and they may exercise control over our business and affairs. Our officers and directors as a group beneficially own approximately 29% of our common stock. As a result, they will continue to be able to exercise significant influence, and in most cases control, over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our charter documents, and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The continued concentrated ownership of our common stock will make it difficult for another company to acquire us and for you to receive any related takeover premium for your shares (unless the controlling group approves the acquisition). 9 Certain provisions of our Restated Articles of Incorporation may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us or may adversely impact your rights as a common shareholder. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that require the approval of holders of 80% of our issued and outstanding shares before we can enter into a merger or other business combination or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Additionally, if we increase the size of our board from the current six to nine directors, we could be required to stagger our directors’ terms, and our directors could not be removed without approval of holders of 80% of our issued and outstanding shares. These provisions could discourage or impede a tender offer, proxy contest, or other similar transaction involving control of us. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock upon such terms and conditions as it deems to be in the best interest of the Company. The terms of such preferred stock may adversely impact the dividend and liquidation rights of the common shareholders without the approval of the common shareholders. We paid our first cash dividend in 2012 but may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock may provide a return to our shareholders. We paid our first cash dividend in December 2012 but may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While there are currently no restrictions prohibiting us from paying dividends to our shareholders, it is at the discretion of the board of directors whether the Company pays any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital and legal requirements, and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Earnings, if any, are expected to be retained to fund our future operations. On May 14, 2012 and May 14, 2010, the Company paid 5% stock dividends to its shareholders. No stock dividends were declared or paid in 2011. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 