ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995): Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future financial performance and financial condition. 10 Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Any forward-looking statements that we make herein and in future reports and statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors relating to the economic environment, interest rates, availability of resources, competition, market concentration, land development activities and various governmental rules and regulations, as more fully discussed in this Risk Factors section. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements or risk factors, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and as required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. General Real Estate, Economic and Other Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The homebuilding industry is significantly affected by changes in national and local economic and other conditions. Many of these conditions are beyond our control. These conditions include employment levels, changing demographics, availability of financing, consumer confidence and housing demand. In addition, homebuilders are subject to risks related to competitive overbuilding, availability and cost of building lots, availability of materials and labor, adverse weather conditions which can cause delays in construction schedules, cost overruns, changes in governmental regulations and increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees. During the second half of 2004 and the first nine months of 2005, we experienced certain delays caused by weather conditions and delays in regulatory processes in certain markets that had an impact on the number of new contracts and homes delivered during 2005. In addition, during 2004 and 2005, our Midwest markets were impacted by softness in the local economy which have impacted, and are expected to continue to impact, housing demand in these markets. As a result of these economic conditions, we are offering certain sales incentives, which will reduce our gross margins on homes delivered in these markets in 2006. Availability and Affordability of Residential Mortgage Financing Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our business is significantly affected by the impact of interest rates. Higher interest rates may decrease our potential market by making it more difficult for homebuyers to qualify for mortgages or to obtain mortgages at interest rates that are acceptable to them. Mortgage rates are currently close to historically low levels. If mortgage interest rates increase, or experience substantial volatility, our business could be adversely affected. The Occurrence of Natural Disasters Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Several of our growth markets, specifically our operations in Florida and North Carolina, are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, hurricanes and flooding. The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could adversely impact our results of operations. Material and Labor Shortages Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The residential construction industry has, from time to time, experienced significant material and labor shortages in insulation, drywall, brick, cement and certain areas of carpentry and framing, as well as fluctuations in lumber prices and supplies. Any shortages of long duration in these areas could delay construction of homes, which could adversely affect our business. During 2005, we experienced material and labor shortages in our Florida markets due to the recent homebuilding growth and the hurricane rebuilding efforts impacting those markets, which has slightly lengthened the house production process; however, we do not anticipate a material effect for the year 2006. Our Future Growth May Require Additional Capital, Which May be Unavailable. Our operations require a significant amount of cash because of the length of time from when we acquire land or lots to when we complete construction of the related homes and deliver those homes to our homebuyers. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, to fund the future growth of our business. The ability for us to secure the needed capital to fund our future growth at terms that are acceptable to us may be impacted by factors beyond our control. 11 Our Business is Dependent on the Availability of Land and Lots that Meet Our Land Investment Criteria. The continued availability of undeveloped land and developed or partially developed lots that meet our land acquisition criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including general land availability, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices and regulatory requirements, such as zoning and allowable density. In the event that we are unable to acquire suitable land or the cost of land substantially increases, the number of homes that we can deliver or the margins on those homes may decline and adversely impact our results of operations. We Commit Significant Resources to Land Development Activities Which Involve Significant Risks. We develop the lots for a majority of our communities. Therefore, our short-term and long-term financial success will be dependent upon our ability to develop these communities successfully. Acquiring land and committing the financial and managerial resources to develop a subdivision involves significant risks. Before a community generates any revenue, we may make material expenditures for items such as acquiring land and constructing infrastructure (roads and utilities). Competition in Our Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our local markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, some of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition, and sales resources than we do. Builders of new homes compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled subcontractors. We also compete with the existing home resale market that provides certain attractions for homebuyers over the new home market. In addition, the mortgage financing industry is very competitive. M/I Financial competes with outside lenders for the capture of our homebuyers. Competition typically increases during periods in which there is a decline in the refinance activity within the industry. During 2004 and 2005, M/I Financial experienced a slight decline in its capture rate due to competitive pressure, which could continue in 2006 and could negatively impact the results of M/I Financial. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Considerations Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The homebuilding industry is subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. This includes local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Such regulation also affects construction activities, including construction materials that must be used in certain aspects of building design, as well as sales activities and other dealings with homebuyers. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, increasingly stringent requirements may be imposed on homebuilders and developers in the future. Although we cannot predict the impact on us to comply with any such requirements, such requirements could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to periodic delays or may be precluded from developing certain projects due to building moratoriums. These moratoriums generally relate to insufficient water supplies or sewage facilities, delays in utility hookups or inadequate road capacity within the specific market area or subdivision. These moratoriums can occur prior to, or subsequent to, commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given project vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance costs (including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control) and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all cases, we have a general practice of requiring resolution of environmental issues prior to purchasing land in an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments. In addition to the laws and regulations that relate to our homebuilding operations, M/I Financial is subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the underwriting, servicing and sale of mortgage loans. We are Dependent on the Services of Certain Key Employees. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could impact our growth strategy and result in additional expenses of identifying and training new personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in many of our markets. We Are Dependent on a Limited Number of Markets. We have operations in Columbus and Cincinnati, Ohio; Indianapolis, Indiana; Tampa, Orlando and West Palm Beach, Florida; Charlotte and Raleigh, North Carolina; Delaware; and the Virginia and Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C. Adverse general economic conditions in these markets could have a material impact on our operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 33% of our operating income was derived from operations in the Columbus market. In 2006, we anticipate that a significant portion of our operating income will be derived from our Florida markets. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 