ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Described below and elsewhere in this report are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks, as well as other information in this filing and the incorporated documents before investing in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Complying with health care reform legislation and the implementing regulations and programmatic guidelines could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition in ways not currently anticipated by us. The US Congress has been pursuing a comprehensive reform of the US health care system since early 2009. Refer to Part I, Item 1, “Government Regulation” for further discussion. Very often, sweeping new legislation is followed by subsequent legislation to address previously unanticipated consequences, or to further define provisions that were too vague to implement based on the language of the original legislation and by legal actions to challenge its constitutionality. In our view it is reasonable to expect this to occur over the next few years. As a result of the broad scope of the Legislation, the significant changes it will effect in the healthcare industry and society generally, and the complexity of the technical issues it addresses, we are unable to predict, at this time, all the ramifications the Legislation and the implementing regulations may have on our business as a health care provider or a sponsor of an employee health insurance benefit plan. The Legislation and implementing regulations and programmatic guidelines could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition in ways not currently anticipated by us. Additionally, we may be unable to take actions to mitigate any or all of the negative implications of the Legislation and implementing regulations or programmatic guidelines which may result in unfavorable earnings, losses, or impairment charges. The Legislation may be modified through subsequent legislative action or judicial challenge. We can provide you with no assurance that the ultimate outcome of the Legislation, health care reform efforts and/or the federal budget and resulting Medicare reimbursement rates will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, our results of operation, the realizability of the carrying amounts of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or our financial condition. Further, we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such material adverse effect, if it were to occur, might have on our ability to continue to comply with the financial covenants of our revolving credit facility and our ability to continue to access debt capital through that facility. Current economic conditions including the status of Federal and State budgets and the related implications on capital markets may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to access credit and capital. As widely reported, global capital and credit markets continue to recover from extreme disruptions and turmoil in 2008 and 2009, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. The downturn resulted in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability as compared to periods prior to 2008. Although there are currently signs of economic recovery, there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions or that the apparent current economic recovery can be sustained. While the ultimate outcome of these events and/or recovery cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Economic conditions (and stimulus efforts by the Federal government) have caused significant Federal and state budget deficits. Efforts to reduce spending at the Federal and/or state levels may result in reductions in reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors which may in turn result in decreased revenue growth and a decrease in our profitability. Our contractors and suppliers may also be negatively impacted by these conditions and our ability to provide patient care at a lower cost may diminish and reduce our profitability. The continuing disruption in the credit and capital markets may restrict our access to capital. As a result, our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund operations and acquisitions may be constrained. If the economic conditions deteriorate or do not continue to improve, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our profitability depends principally on the level of government-mandated payment rates. Reductions in rates, or rate increases that do not cover cost increases, may adversely affect our business. We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare and Medicaid for our services based on the level of care that we provide patients. Consequently, our profitability largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing services. Although current Medicare legislation provides for an annual adjustment of the various payment rates based on the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, these Medicare payment rate increases may be less than actual inflation or could be eliminated or reduced in any given year. Consequently, if our cost of providing services, which consists primarily of labor costs, is greater than the respective Medicare or Medicaid payment rate, our profitability would be negatively impacted. “Rebasing” of Medicare Reimbursement rates for home health care could adversely affect our business. As previously disclosed, the Legislation requires a rebasing of home health reimbursement rates phased in over four years from 2014 through 2017. These provisions require CMS to recalculate or “rebase” home health reimbursement to more closely align with the costs of providing care. Any reduction in reimbursement rates resulting from rebasing cannot exceed 3.5% per year in each of the four phase-in years. There are certain requirements for MedPac and the HHS Secretary to assess and report on the impact of rebasing on access and quality of care. Home health reimbursement rates have not been rebased since the inception of the prospective payment system in October 1, 2000. Additionally, the Congress or CMS may take actions that could change the timing of implementation of rebasing. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the impact rebasing of home health reimbursement rates may have when it is completed. If any of our agencies fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program, which would adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability. Each of our home care agencies must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program. If any of our agencies fail to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency then fails to institute a plan of correction to correct the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program. Additionally, failure to comply with the conditions of participation related to enrollment could result in a deactivation or revocation of billing privileges. To the extent that billing privileges are revoked there is a mandated one to three-year bar to re-enrollment. The failure to pass a site verification visit, for example, could result in a revocation of billing privileges with a mandated two-year bar to re-enrollment. Although the revocation would only immediately affect the particular enrollment subject to the revocation, CMS has indicated that following a revocation it will review the enrollment files for providers under common ownership or control to determine if a similar sanction is warranted for any of the other related providers. Any termination of one or more of our home care agencies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability. Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results. The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, regulate how we do business, the services we offer, and our interactions with patients and the public. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our profitability by: · increasing our liability; · increasing our administrative and other costs; · increasing or decreasing mandated services; · forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers; or · requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, or claims for damages. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed on us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability. We have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation. The Company is currently the subject of a number of civil investigations, and qui tam or “whistleblower” suits relating to its Medicare-reimbursed operations. For further discussion of investigations and lawsuits, please refer to Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. Many of these appear to be similar to investigations and claims relating to other providers of home health services. We may become, or unknown to us may already be, the subject of investigations, qui tams, or lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and liquidity. 16 Table of Contents Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors (“MACs”), fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and liquidity. In December 2011, home health providers, including the Company, began receiving pre-pay Additional Development Requests (“ADRs”) from the Palmetto Government Benefits Administration (“PGBA”) as a result of additional CMS funding allocations to the MACs to conduct pre-payment reviews. The ADRs appear to be both general and focused in nature. The PGBA acts as one of our four fiscal intermediaries, but processes the majority of our claims. We have received ADRs from PGBA and expect other fiscal intermediaries to also issue ADRs in the future. If such ADRs result in reimbursement adjustments, we may suffer reduced profitability. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on referrals from physicians, hospitals, case managers and other patient referral sources in the communities that our home care agencies serve, as well as on our ability to maintain good relationships with these referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer home care patients to us and may refer their patients to other providers. Our growth and profitability depend on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of home care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably. We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, including potential or current referral sources. We are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical services. We are also required to comply with the “Stark” law, which places restrictions on physicians who refer patients to entities in which they have a financial interest or from which they receive financial benefit. In addition to the federal anti-kickback and Stark laws, some of the states in which we operate have enacted laws prohibiting certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. We currently have contractual relationships with certain physicians who provide consulting services to our Company. Many of these physicians are current or potential referral sources. Although we believe our physician consultant arrangements currently comply with state and federal anti-kickback and Stark laws, we cannot assure you that courts or regulatory agencies will not interpret these laws in ways that will implicate our physician consultant arrangements. Violations of anti-kickback and similar laws could lead to fines or sanctions, including under the False Claims Act, that may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may be subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims. The services we offer involve an inherent risk of professional liability and related substantial damage awards. On any given day, we have several hundred nurses and therapists and other direct care personnel driving to and from patients’ homes where they deliver medical and other care. Due to the nature of our business, we and the caregivers who provide services on our behalf may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These caregivers could be considered our agents, and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We maintain malpractice and various other liability insurance or re-insurance policies and are responsible for deductibles and, as applicable, amounts in excess of the limits of our coverage. Although we contract with highly rated carriers, we cannot guarantee collection of amounts expected to be recovered under various insurance or reinsurance policies. 17 Table of Contents Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems. Our business is characterized by delays in reimbursement from the time we provide services to the time we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. Data submission requirements change from time to time for payors or payments to us may be delayed pending additional data or documentation requests by the fiscal intermediary, or our ability to effectively respond to such requirements may delay our payment cycle. If we have information system problems or issues that arise with Medicare or Medicaid, we may encounter delays in our payment cycle. Such a timing delay may cause working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. System problems, Medicare or Medicaid issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. Our working capital management procedures may not successfully negate this risk. There are often timing delays when attempting to collect funds from Medicaid programs. Delays in receiving reimbursement or payments from these programs may adversely impact our working capital. Our industry is highly competitive. Our home health care agencies compete with local and regional home health care companies, hospitals, nursing homes, and other businesses that provide home nursing services, some of which are large established companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Our primary competition comes from local companies in each of our markets, and these privately-owned or hospital-owned health care providers vary by region and market. We compete based on the availability of personnel; the quality, expertise, and value of our services; and in select instances, on the price of our services. Increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Some of our existing and potential new competitors may enjoy greater name recognition and greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of services. These competitors may undertake more far-reaching and effective marketing campaigns and may offer more attractive opportunities to existing and potential employees and services to referral sources. We expect our competitors to develop new strategic relationships with providers, referral sources, and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. Additionally, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us. We expect that industry forces will continue to have an impact on our business and that of our competitors. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant changes driven by efforts to reduce costs, and we expect these cost containment measures to continue in the future. Frequent regulatory changes in our industry, including reductions in reimbursement rates and changes in services covered, have increased competition among home health care providers. If we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer. A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff, physical therapists, occupational therapists and other caregivers could adversely affect our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain caregivers who possess the skills, experience, and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our patients. We compete for personnel with other providers of health care services. Our ability to attract and retain caregivers depends on several factors, including our ability to provide these caregivers with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in any of these areas. In addition, there are occasional shortages of qualified healthcare personnel in some of the markets in which we operate. As a result, we may face higher costs of attracting caregivers and 18 Table of Contents providing them with attractive benefit packages than we originally anticipated and, if that occurs, our profitability could decline. Finally, although this is currently not a significant factor in our existing markets, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where healthcare providers have historically unionized, we cannot assure you that the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements will not have a negative effect on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel. Generally, if we are unable to attract and retain caregivers, the quality of our services may decline, and we could lose patients and referral sources. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on government sponsored reimbursement programs with Medicare accounting for the largest portion of our revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we received 77%, 81% and 78%, respectively, of our revenue from Medicare. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Such reductions in payments to us could be caused by: · administrative or legislative changes to the base episode rate; · the elimination or reduction of annual rate increases based on medical inflation; · the imposition by Medicare of co-payments or other mechanisms shifting responsibility for a portion of payment to beneficiaries; · adjustments to the relative components of the wage index; · changes to our case mix or therapy thresholds; or · other adverse changes to the way we are paid for delivering our services. Our non-Medicare revenues and profitability also are affected by the continuing efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services, and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Any changes in reimbursement levels from these third-party payor sources and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to maintain the current payor or revenue mix. Our reliance on government sponsored reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid makes us vulnerable to possible legislative and administrative regulations and budget cut-backs that could adversely affect the number of persons eligible for such programs, the amount of allowed reimbursements or other aspects of the programs, any of which could materially affect us. In addition, loss of certification or qualification under Medicare or Medicaid programs could materially affect our ability to effectively market our services. We have a significant dependence on state Medicaid reimbursement programs. Approximately 18%, 15% and 17% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 revenues, respectively, were derived from state Medicaid and other government programs, many of which currently face significant budget issues. Further, the acquisitions completed by us in 2011 increased our dependence on Medicaid reimbursement. Specifically, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 8.3%, 6.1% and 2.8% of our revenues were generated from Medicaid reimbursement programs in the states of Ohio, Connecticut and Kentucky, respectively. Such amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010, were approximately 4.1%, 6.0% and 3.1%, respectively and 4.4%, 7.5% and 3.1%, respectively for the year ended December 31, 2009. The financial condition of the Medicaid programs in each of the states in which we operate is cyclical and many may be expected from time to time to take actions or evaluate taking actions to control the rate of growth of Medicaid expenditures. Among these actions are the following: · redefining eligibility standards for Medicaid coverage, · redefining coverage criteria for home and community based care services, · slowing payments to providers by increasing the minimum time in which payments are made, · limiting reimbursement rate increases, · increased utilization of self-directed care alternatives, · shifting beneficiaries from traditional coverage to Medicaid managed care providers, and · changing regulations under which providers must operate. 19 Table of Contents States may be expected to address these issues because the number of Medicaid beneficiaries and their related expenditures are growing at a faster rate than the government’s revenue. Medicaid is consuming a greater percentage of states’ budgets. This issue is exacerbated when revenues slow in a slowing economy. It is possible that the actions taken by the state Medicaid programs in the future could have a significant unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Migration of our Medicare beneficiary patients to Medicare managed care providers could negatively impact our operating results. Historically, we have generated a substantial portion of our revenue from the Medicare fee-for-service market. The Congress continues to allocate significant additional funds and other incentives to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries. If these increased funding levels have the intended result, the size of the potential Medicare fee-for-service market could decline, thereby reducing the size of our potential patient population, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations. Our business plan calls for significant growth in our business over the next several years. This growth will place significant demands on our management and information technology systems, internal controls, and financial and professional resources. In addition, we will need to further develop our financial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems, and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to develop and to acquire additional agencies on favorable terms and to integrate and operate these agencies effectively. If we are unable to do so, our future growth and operating results could be negatively impacted. With regard to development, we expect to continue to open agencies in our existing and new markets. Our new agency growth, however, will depend on several factors, including our ability to: · obtain locations for agencies in markets where need exists; · identify and hire a sufficient number of sales personnel and appropriately trained home care and other health care professionals; · obtain adequate financing to fund growth; and · operate successfully under applicable government regulations. With regard to acquisitions, we are focusing significant time and resources on the acquisition of home healthcare providers, or of certain of their assets, in targeted markets. We may be unable to identify, negotiate, and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms. We may incur future liabilities related to acquisitions. Should any of the following problems, or others, occur as a result of our acquisition strategy, the impact could be material: · difficulties integrating personnel from acquired entities and other corporate cultures into our business; · difficulties integrating information systems; · the potential loss of key employees or referral sources of acquired companies or a reduction in patient referrals by hospitals from which we have acquired home health care agencies; · the assumption of liabilities and exposure to undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; · the acquisition of an agency with undisclosed compliance problems; · the diversion of management attention from existing operations; · difficulties in recouping partial episode payments and other types of misdirected payments for services from the previous owners; or · an unsuccessful claim for indemnification rights from previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of acquisition. CMS has placed certain limitations on the sale or transfer of the Medicare Provider Agreement for any Medicare-certified home health agency that has been in existence for less than 36 months or that has undergone a change of 20 Table of Contents ownership in the last 36 months. This limitation may reduce the number of home health agencies that otherwise would have been available for acquisition and may limit our ability to successfully pursue our acquisition strategy. We may require additional capital to pursue our acquisition strategy. At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $33.7 million and additional borrowing capacity of approximately $119.2 million. Based on our current plan of operations, including acquisitions, we cannot assure you that this amount will be sufficient, nor continue to be fully available, to support our current growth strategies. We cannot readily predict the timing, size, and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing. We have as recently as the third quarter of 2009, issued additional shares of our common stock pursuant to our December 2008 shelf registration statement. At some future point, we may elect to issue additional equity or debt securities in conjunction with raising capital or completing an acquisition. We cannot assure you that such issuances will not be dilutive to existing shareholders. Conversely, our board may approve stock repurchase programs in the future, which may use funds previously otherwise available for the pursuit of growth. Our business depends on our information systems. Our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information systems could disrupt our operations. Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing claims, reporting financial results, measuring outcomes and quality of care, managing regulatory compliance controls, and maintaining operational efficiencies. These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers. To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected. Our agencies also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, payroll, learning management and other information. If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to process transactions and produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and patient data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented. Further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events. A failure to implement our disaster recovery plans or ultimately restore our information systems after the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, loss of electronically-stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. 21 Table of Contents We face additional federal requirements in the transmission and retention and protection of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs and to simplify healthcare administrative processes. The enactment of HIPAA expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information. Among the standards that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security and electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), effective February 22, 2010, sets forth health information security breach notification requirements. The HITECH Act requires patient notification for all breaches, media notification of breaches of over 500 patients and at least annual reporting of all breaches to the Secretary of HHS. The HITECH Act also includes 4 tiers of sanctions for breaches ($100 to $1.5 million). Failure to comply with HITECH could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. We develop our clinical software system in-house. Failure of, or problems with, our system could harm our business and operating results. We develop and utilize a proprietary clinical software system to collect assessment data, log patient visits, generate medical orders, and monitor treatments and outcomes in accordance with established medical standards. The system integrates billing and collections functionality as well as accounting, human resource, payroll, and employee benefits programs provided by third parties. Problems with, or the failure of, our technology and systems could negatively impact data capture, billing, collections, and management and reporting capabilities. Any such problems or failures could adversely affect our operations and reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to provide our services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any errors or problems may be substantial and could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on outside software providers. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business, some of which are provided by outside software providers. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If our providers are unable to maintain or expand our information systems properly, we could suffer from operational disruptions and an increase in administrative expenses, among other things. Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs. We bear significant insurance risk under our large-deductible workers’ compensation insurance program and our self-insured employee health program. We also carry D&O coverage for potential claims against our directors and officers, including securities actions. For additional information, please refer to Part I, Item 1, “Insurance Programs and Costs” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”. Claims made to date or in the future may exceed the limits of such insurance, if any. Such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business or on our assets. Our insurance coverage also includes fire, property damage, and general liability with varying limits. Although we maintain insurance consistent with industry practice, we cannot assure you that the insurance we maintain will satisfy claims made against us. In addition, as a result of operating in the home healthcare industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging employee accidents that may occur in a patient’s home. Finally, insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. Any claims made against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could damage our reputation and business. 22 Table of Contents We estimate Medicare and Medicaid liabilities that may be payable by us in the future. These liabilities may be subject to audit or further review, and we may owe additional amounts beyond what we expect and have reserved. The Company is paid for its services primarily by federal and state third-party reimbursement programs, commercial insurance companies, and patients. Revenues are recorded at established rates in the period during which the services are rendered. Appropriate allowances are recorded when the services are rendered, if necessary, to give recognition to third party payment arrangements. Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation. It is common for issues to arise related to: 1) medical coding, particularly with respect to Medicare, 2) patient eligibility, particularly related to Medicaid; and 3) other reasons unrelated to credit risk, all of which may result in adjustments to recorded revenue amounts. Management continuously evaluates the potential for revenue adjustments and when appropriate provides allowances for losses based upon the best available information. There is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates could change by material amounts in the near term. We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees. Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William B. Yarmuth, and our other named executive officers. We also depend upon the continued employment of the individuals that manage several of our key functional areas, including operations, business development, accounting, finance, human resources, marketing, information systems, contracting and compliance. The departure of any member of our senior management team or inability to appropriately implement succession plans may materially affect our operations. Our operations could be affected by natural disasters. A substantial number of our agencies are located in Florida, increasing our exposure to hurricanes and other natural disasters. The occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could not only affect the day-to-day operations of our agencies but also could disrupt our relationships with patients, employees and referral sources located in the affected areas. In addition, any episode of care that is not completed due to the impact of a natural disaster will generally result in lower revenue for the episode. We cannot assure you that hurricanes or other natural disasters will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: · our operating and financial performance; · variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur; · investor perception of our business and our prospects; · developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations; · changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or · general industry, economic and stock market conditions In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of health care provider companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following 23 Table of Contents periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. As previously mentioned and discussed more fully in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”, four putative class action lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky against us, our officers and or certain directors. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of those shares for future sale, could adversely affect our stock price and limit our ability to raise capital. At December 31, 2011, 9,367,454 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In 2007, we established the 2007 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan for the benefit of employees and directors providing for the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of common stock. Moreover, as of December 31, 2011, 536,996 shares of our common stock remained reserved for issuance pursuant to our incentive compensation plans and 300,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock to the public or the perception that substantial sales could occur. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell common stock in the future to raise capital. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and you should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock. We do not pay dividends and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business. In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings, and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our Board of Directors may use anti-takeover provisions or issue stock to discourage control contests. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. These provisions, and others that the Board of Directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our Board of Directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. Therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 