ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed in Item 1 above. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. The most significant of these factors are recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers’ inventory levels, excess tractor or trailer capacity in comparison with shipping demand, and downturns in customers’ business cycles. Economic conditions, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers and in regions of the country where we have a significant amount of business, that decrease shipping demand or increase the supply of tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates or equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. Adverse economic conditions also may harm our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. We are also subject to increases in costs that are outside of our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, fuel prices, taxes, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance costs, cost of revenue equipment, and healthcare for our employees. We could also be affected by strikes or other work stoppages at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations as well as declines in the resale value of used equipment. In addition, we cannot predict the effects on the economy or consumer confidence of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures could negatively impact our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. Our growth may not continue at historical rates. Historically, we have experienced significant and rapid growth in revenue and profits. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to grow in a similar fashion in the future or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Further, there can be no assurance that our operating margins will not be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. If we are unable to retain our current customers at our current freight rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry with thousands of carriers of varying sizes. Because of general economic conditions and continued over capacity, the industry became even more competitive based on freight volumes and freight rates throughout 2008 and 2009 although rates improved slightly in the second half of 2010 given improved economic factors. Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates. Should our customer base not see a difference in the services the Company provides and is no longer willing to pay freight rates we expect to receive for the service we provide we may be forced to lower our rates to retain customers or lose customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to replace customers lost with new customers. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms. The truckload industry is capital intensive, and our policy of operating newer equipment requires us to expend significant amounts annually. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we would need to utilize available cash reserves or seek alternative sources of capital, including financing, to meet our capital requirements. In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. 7 Table of Contents Increased prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment and decreased demand and value of used equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, for among other reasons, due to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to commodity prices and pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive EPA emissions standards that began in 2002 with additional new requirements implemented in 2007 have required vendors to introduce new engines. Additional EPA mandated emission standards became effective for newly manufactured trucks beginning in January 2010. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 89.5% of our tractor fleet was comprised of tractors with engines that met the EPA-mandated clean air standards that became effective January 1, 2007. Tractors that meet the 2007 standards have been approximately 20% more expensive than tractors with pre 2007 engine emission standards. Accordingly, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for tractor equipment as we continue to increase the percentage of our fleet that meets the EPA mandated clean air standards. In addition, a decreased demand for used revenue equipment could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on the sale and trade-in of used revenue equipment to partially offset the cost of new revenue equipment. When the supply of used revenue equipment exceeds the demand for used revenue equipment as it did during 2008 and 2009, the general market value of used revenue equipment decreases. Management revises estimates to depreciation to better reflect expected values of equipment at the end of the estimated useful life as reflected in the change in depreciation estimates for tractors in 2009. The sale/trade values of tractors that we experienced during 2008-2010 and expect to experience in the first half of 2011 were largely due to an agreement finalized in 2008, prior to declines in estimated market values of used equipment. We have no such guaranteed residual value agreement on 89.5% of our current tractor fleet. Should the conditions experienced during 2008 and 2009 return, it would increase our capital expenditures for new revenue equipment, decrease our gains on sale of revenue equipment, or increase our maintenance costs if management decides to extend the use of revenue equipment in a depressed market. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic, weather related, and market factors that are generally outside our control and each of which may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have sought to recover a portion of increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges, and during 2009, in an attempt to further manage our exposure to changes in fuel prices, we used derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges on a limited basis. During periods of rapidly rising fuel prices, fuel surcharge agreements do not cover 100% of the Company’s incremental fuel expense. Therefore, fuel surcharges that can be collected do not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel and there is no assurance that we will be able to execute successful hedges in the future. To the extent we are not successful in the negotiations for fuel surcharges and hedging arrangements, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Difficulty in driver and independent contractor recruitment and retention may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, could have a materially adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our independent contractors are responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs, and significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek higher compensation from us or seek other opportunities within or outside the trucking industry. In addition, competition for drivers, which is always intense, may increase even more as the overall demand for freight services increases with a reversal of the current economic trends and conditions. If a shortage of drivers should continue, or if we were unable to continue to attract and contract with independent contractors, we could be forced to limit our growth, experience an increase in the number of our tractors without drivers, or be required to further adjust our driver compensation package, which would lower our profitability. Increases in driver compensation could adversely affect our profitability if not offset by a corresponding increase in rates. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We operate in the United States pursuant to operating authority granted by the U.S. Department of Transportation (the "DOT"). Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug- and alcohol-testing and HOS. Weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to exhaust emissions, drivers' HOS, ergonomics, 8 Table of Contents electronic, on-board recorders, collective bargaining, security at ports, and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. The DOT is currently engaged in a rulemaking proceeding regarding drivers' HOS, and the result could negatively impact utilization of our equipment. We are unable to predict what form the new rules may take, how a court may rule on such challenges to such rules and to what extent the FMCSA might attempt to materially revise the rules under the current presidential administration. On the whole, however, we believe any modification to the current rules will decrease productivity and cause some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers may need to be retrained, computer programming may require modifications, additional drivers may need to be employed or engaged, additional equipment may need to be acquired, and some shipping lanes may need to be reconfigured. We are also unable to predict the effect of any new rules that might be proposed if the final rule is stricken by a court, but any such proposed rules could increase costs in our industry or decrease productivity. On January 31, 2011 the FMCSA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding EOBR and HOS supporting documents. Through the proposed rules, the FMCSA is proposing to require certain motor carries operating commercial motor vehicles in interstate commerce to use EOBRs to document their drivers' HOS. Under this proposal, all motor carriers currently required to maintain records of duty status for HOS record keeping would be required to use EOBRs to systematically and effectively monitor their drivers' compliance with HOS requirements. Such installation could cause an increase in driver turnover, adverse information in litigation, and cost increases. Federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The Transportation Security Administration(the “TSA”) of the Department of Homeland Security has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his or her license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit our fleet growth, or let trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it is possible we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. Some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle, in order to reduce exhaust emissions. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers' behavior, purchase on-board power units that replaces engine power and eliminates idling, or face a decrease in productivity. CSA could adversely affect our profitability and operations, our ability to maintain or grow our fleet, and our customer relationships. Under CSA, drivers and fleets are evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. The methodology for determining a carrier's DOT safety rating has been expanded to include the on-road safety performance of the carrier's drivers. As a result, certain current and potential drivers may no longer be eligible to drive for us, our fleet could be ranked poorly as compared to our peers, and our safety rating could be adversely impacted. A reduction in eligible drivers or a poor fleet ranking may result in difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including impacting our number of unmanned trucks, and could cause our customers to direct their business away from us and to carriers with higher fleet rankings, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, competition for drivers with favorable safety ratings may increase and thus provide for increases in driver related compensation cost. From time to time we could exceed the FMCSA's established intervention thresholds under certain categories. If we exceed one or more of the thresholds, our drivers may be prioritized for intervention action or roadside inspection by regulatory authorities. Additionally, we may incur greater than expected expenses in our attempts to improve our scores. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. In addition to direct regulation by the DOT and other agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial facilities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at the majority of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 9 Table of Contents Our business also is subject to the effects of new tractor engine design requirements implemented by the EPA such as those that became effective October 1, 2002, and additional EPA emission requirements that became effective in January 2007 and January 2010 which are discussed above under "Risk Factors – Increased prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows." Additional changes in the laws and regulations governing or impacting our industry could affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to shippers. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Historically, acquisitions have been a part of our growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company's operations, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. If we are unable to retain our key employees or find, develop, and retain service center managers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon the services of several executive officers and key management employees. The loss of any of their services could have a short-term, negative impact on our operations and profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. Failing to develop and retain a core group of managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We have developed a structured business plan and procedures to prevent a long-term effect on future profitability due to the loss of key management employees. The Company previously announced that Russell Gerdin, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is currently on a leave of absence for health reasons. During Russell Gerdin's absence, Michael Gerdin, the Company's President, has assumed all of Russell Gerdin's responsibilities including the responsibilities of Chairman of the Board and Principal Executive Officer for SEC reporting purposes. Should Russell Gerdin not be able to return to the Company, the Company's share price may be negatively impacted. We are highly dependent on a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from several major customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our top 25 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 73.1% of our gross revenue. This was not significantly different than the previous year. One customer accounted for approximately 12.6% of gross revenue in 2010. No other customer accounted for as much as ten percent of revenue. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If the estimated fair value of auction rate securities continue to remain below cost or if the fair value decreases significantly from the current fair value, we may be required to record an impairment of these investments, through a charge in the consolidated statement of income, which could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings. All of our long-term investments as of December 31, 2010 were in tax free; auction rate student loan educational bonds primarily backed by the U.S. government. The investments typically have an interest reset provision of 35 days with contractual maturities that range from 14 to 37 years as of December 31, 2010. At the reset date we historically had the option to roll the investments and reset the interest rate or sell the investments in an auction. We historically received the par value of the investment plus accrued interest on reset date if the underlying investment was sold. Primarily all long term investments held by us (99.2% of par value) have AAA (or equivalent) ratings from recognized rating agencies. We only hold senior positions of underlying securities. We have not invested in other asset backed securities and do not have direct securitized sub-prime mortgage loans exposure or loans to, commitments in, or investments in sub-prime lenders. When we elect to participate in an auction and therefore sell investments, there is no guarantee that a willing buyer will purchase the security resulting in us receiving cash upon the election to sell. During the quarter ended March 31, 2008 we began experiencing failures in the auction process of auction rate securities that have continued through December 31, 2010. The result is a lack of liquidity in these investments. These investments were approximately 16% of our total assets at December 31, 2010.10 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, all of our auction rate securities were associated with unsuccessful auctions. Upon an unsuccessful auction, the interest rate of the underlying investment is reset to a default interest rate. Until a subsequent auction is successful or the underlying security is called by the issuer, we will be unable to sell these securities. Based on the unsuccessful auctions that began during February 2008 and continued through December 31, 2010, we have classified these investments as long-term investments. In addition, we recorded an adjustment to fair value to reflect the lack of liquidity in these securities through an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss. Since auction failures began and continuing through December 31, 2010, there were no instances of delinquencies or non-payment of applicable interest from the issuers. We have no assurance that we will be able to sell these investments at par and cannot predict whether future auctions related to our auction rate securities will be successful. Should we have liquidity requirements before these financial institutions provide liquidity to auction rate securities, we may be required to discount these securities in order to liquidate them. We will continue to monitor these investments and ongoing market conditions in future periods to assess impairments considered to be other than temporary. Should estimated fair value continue to remain below cost or the fair value decrease significantly due to credit related issues, we may be required to record an impairment of these investments, through a charge in the consolidated statement of income. Based on our current financial position, we do not believe that we will have to sell these securities at a discount, however, if our financial condition changes and we were able to sell them at a discount, it could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. Under current U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for valuing investments reported as available-for-sale, we must value those assets at the prices that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The estimated fair value of the underlying investments as of December 31, 2010 declined below amortized cost of the investments, as a result of liquidity issues in the auction rate markets. As a result of the fair value measurements, we recognized an unrealized loss and reduction to investments, of $8.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The estimated fair value of the underlying investments remained below amortized costs of the investments throughout 2009 and 2010. A $3.3 million reduction to the unrealized loss was recognized during 2009 and another $2.5 million reduction in 2010 due to improved market conditions and the call of some auction rate securities at par value plus accrued interest. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase and fuel efficiency declines because of engine idling and harsh weather which creates higher accident frequency, increased claims, and more equipment repairs. We can also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers’ compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees’ health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We reserve currently for anticipated losses and related expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect trends in our own experience as well as industry trends. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. We do not currently maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage, although we are obligated to indemnify them against certain liabilities they may incur while serving in such capacities. We maintain insurance with licensed insurance carriers for the amounts in excess of our self-insured portion. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers that provide excess insurance coverage to the Company currently and for past claim years have encountered financial issues. We do not currently believe the financial issues faced by our insurance companies will affect our current or prior insurance coverage or our ability to obtain similar insurance in the future. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention when our policies are renewed. During 2009 we increased our retention limits for auto liability coverage from $1 million per occurrence to $2 million per occurrence to partially offset increased insurance costs. If these expenses increase, or if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, or we experience a claim that is covered and our insurance company fails to perform, results of our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We are dependent on computer and communications systems, and a systems failure could cause a significant disruption to our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently use a centralized computer network and regular communication to achieve system-wide load coordination. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. In the event of a significant system failure, our business could experience significant disruption. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 