ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements as discussed in Item 1 above. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, many of which are beyond our control. The most significant of these factors are recessionary economic cycles, changes in customers’ inventory levels, excess tractor or trailer capacity in comparison with shipping demand, and downturns in customers’ business cycles. Economic conditions, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers and in regions of the country where we have a significant amount of business, that decrease shipping demand or increase the supply of tractors and trailers can exert downward pressure on rates or equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. Adverse economic conditions also may harm our customers and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. We are subject to factors within the capital markets that may affect our short-term liquidity. All of our long-term investments as of December 31, 2009 were in tax free; auction rate student loan educational bonds primarily backed by the U.S. government. The investments typically have an interest reset provision of 35 days with contractual maturities that range from 4 to 38 years as of December 31, 2009. At the reset date we historically had the option to roll the investments and reset the interest rate or sell the investments in an auction. We historically received the par value of the investment plus accrued interest on reset date if the underlying investment was sold. Primarily all long term investments held by us (96% of par value) have AAA (or equivalent) ratings from recognized rating agencies. We only hold senior positions of underlying securities. We have not invested in asset backed securities and do not have direct securitized sub-prime mortgage loans exposure or loans to, commitments in, or investments in sub-prime lenders. When we elect to participate in an auction and therefore sell investments, there is no guarantee that a willing buyer will purchase the security resulting in us receiving cash upon the election to sell. During the quarter ended March 31, 2008 we began experiencing failures in the auction process of auction rate securities that have continued through December 31, 2009. The result is a lack of liquidity in these investments. We are also subject to increases in costs that are outside of our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, fuel prices, taxes, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance costs, cost of revenue equipment, and healthcare for our employees. We could also be affected by strikes or other work stoppages at customer, port, border, or other shipping locations as well as declines in the resale value of used equipment. In addition, we cannot predict the effects on the economy or consumer confidence of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state, or heightened security requirements. Enhanced security measures could impair our operating efficiency and productivity and result in higher operating costs. Our growth may not continue at historical rates. Historically, we have experienced significant and rapid growth in revenue and profits. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to grow in a similar fashion in the future or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Further, there can be no assurance that our operating margins will not be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain our current customers at our current freight rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry with thousands of carriers of varying sizes. Because of general economic conditions and continued over capacity within our industry, the industry has become even more competitive based on freight rates throughout 2008 and 2009. The Company believes it competes effectively by providing high-quality service and meeting the equipment needs of our customers. Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates. Should our customer base not see a difference in the services the Company provides and is no longer willing to pay freight rates we expect to receive for the service we provide we may be forced to lower our rates to retain customers or lose customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations if we are unable to replace customers lost with new customers. Increased prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to risk with respect to prices for new tractors. Prices may increase, for among other reasons, due to government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines and due to commodity prices and pricing power among equipment manufacturers. More restrictive EPA emissions standards that began in 2002 with additional new requirements implemented in 2007 have required vendors to introduce new engines. Additional EPA mandated emission standards became effective for newly manufactured trucks beginning in January 2010. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors and trailers. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 73% of our tractor fleet was comprised of tractors with engines that met the EPA-mandated clean air standards that became effective January 1, 2007. Tractors that meet the 2007 standards have been more expensive than non-compliant tractors, and 2010 compliant tractors will be more expensive than the 2007 compliant tractors. Accordingly, we expect to continue to pay increased prices for tractor equipment as we continue to increase the percentage of our fleet that meets the EPA mandated clean air standards. In addition, a decreased demand for used revenue equipment could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on the sale and trade-in of used revenue equipment to partially offset the cost of new revenue equipment. When the supply of used revenue equipment exceeds the demand for used revenue equipment as it did during 2008 and 2009, the general market value of used revenue equipment decreases. Should this current condition continue, it would increase our capital expenditures for new revenue equipment, decrease our gains on sale of revenue equipment, or increase our maintenance costs if management decides to extend the use of revenue equipment in a depressed market. If fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to risk with respect to purchases of fuel. Prices and availability of petroleum products are subject to political, economic, weather related, and market factors that are generally outside our control and each of which may cause the price of fuel to increase. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, significant increases in diesel fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass increased costs on to customers through rate increases or fuel surcharges. Historically, we have sought to recover a portion of increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges, and during 2009, in an attempt to further manage our exposure to changes in fuel prices, we used derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. During periods of rapidly rising fuel prices, fuel surcharge agreements do not cover 100% of the Company’s incremental fuel expense. Therefore, fuel surcharges that can be collected do not always fully offset the increase in the cost of diesel fuel and there is no assurance that we will be able to execute successful hedges in the future. To the extent we are not successful in the negotiations for fuel surcharges and hedging arrangements our results of operations may be adversely affected. Difficulty in driver and independent contractor recruitment and retention may have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, could have a materially adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our independent contractors are responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel, and other operating costs, and significant increases in these costs could cause them to seek higher compensation from us or seek other opportunities within or outside the trucking industry. In addition, competition for drivers, which is always intense, may increase even more when the overall demand for freight services increases with a reversal of the current economic trends and conditions. If a shortage of drivers should continue, or if we were unable to continue to attract and contract with independent contractors, we could be forced to limit our growth, experience an increase in the number of our tractors without drivers, or be required to further adjust our driver compensation package, which would lower our profitability. Increases in driver compensation could adversely affect our profitability if not offset by a corresponding increase in rates. 7 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated industry and changes in regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various government agencies, including the DOT. The DOT, through the FMCSA, imposes safety and fitness regulations on us and our drivers. New rules that limit driver hours-of-service were adopted effective January 4, 2004, and then modified effective October 1, 2005 (the "2005 Rules"). In July, 2007, a federal appeals court vacated portions of the 2005 Rules. Two of the key portions that were vacated include the expansion of the driving day from 10 hours to 11 hours, and the “34-hour restart,” which allows drivers to restart calculations of the weekly on-duty time limits after the driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. The court indicated that, in addition to other reasons, it vacated these two portions of the 2005 Rules because FMCSA failed to provide adequate data supporting its decision to increase the driving day and provide for the 34-hour restart. In November 2008, following the submission of additional data by FMCSA and a series of appeals and related court rulings, FMCSA published its final rule, which retains the 11 hour driving day and the 34-hour restart. However, advocacy groups have continued to challenge the final rule, and on October 26, 2009, the FMCSA agreed pursuant to a settlement agreement with certain advocacy groups that the Final Rule on drivers’ hours-of-service would not take effect pending the publication of a new Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Under the settlement agreement, the FMCSA will submit the draft Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to the Office of Management and Budget by July 2010 and the FMCSA will issue a Final Rule by 2012. The current hours-of-service rules, adopted in 2005, will remain in effect during the rulemaking proceedings. In December of 2009, the FMCSA issued a notice soliciting data and research information the FMCSA may consider in drafting the forthcoming Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. We are unable to predict what form the new rules may take, how a court may rule on such challenges to such rules and to what extent the FMCSA might attempt to materially revise the rules under the current presidential administration. On the whole, however, we believe any modification to the current rules will decrease productivity and cause some loss of efficiency, as drivers and shippers may need to be retrained, computer programming may require modifications, additional drivers may need to be employed or engaged, additional equipment may need to be acquired, and some shipping lanes may need to be reconfigured. We are also unable to predict the effect of any new rules that might be proposed if the final rule is stricken by a court, but any such proposed rules could increase costs in our industry or decrease productivity. The FMCSA has proposed a rule that may require companies with a history of serious hours-of-service violations to install electronic on-board recorders (EOBR) in all of their commercial vehicles. This installation would be for a minimum of two years. On January 30, 2008, we completed a full FMCSA compliance review which found no evidence of any serious violations thereby maintaining its Satisfactory Safety Rating. During 2008, the DOT issued a rule that now includes tractor onboard position history as part of supporting documentation in DOT audits and inquiries. Further, the new rule requires that we maintain six months of tractor onboard position history. The FMCSA is currently studying rules relating to braking distance and on-board data recorders that could result in new rules being proposed. We are unable to predict the effects, if any; such proposed rules may have on us. During 2009, the FMCSA introduced CSA 2010, which sets new evaluation standards on the safety performance of motor carriers and drivers. CSA 2010 is a new methodology that enhances the measurement of a motor carrier’s safety performance and adds innovative new tools designed to correct deficiencies. CSA 2010 is designed to impact the behavior of carriers and drivers, industry high-risk carriers and drivers, and apply a wider range of initiatives to reduce high risk behavior. Through CSA 2010, the FMCSA along with its state partners will include a comprehensive measurement system of all safety-based violations found during roadside inspections and weighing such violations by their relationship to crash risk. Safety performance information will be accumulated to assess the safety performance of both carriers and drivers. The CSA implementation date is set for July 1, 2010 and enforcement will begin in late 2010. The Company is currently preparing for CSA 2010 through evaluation of existing programs and emphasized training on CSA 2010 and how it will affect the Company as well as its drivers and potential drivers. CSA 2010 may affect the availability of drivers that meet our hiring standards and may limit our growth if we are unable to find qualified drivers that meet our safety standards. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In general, the increasing burden of regulation raises our costs and lowers our efficiency. Our company drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to U.S. regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers' hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Other agencies, such as the EPA and the Department of Homeland Security (the “DHS”), also regulate our equipment, operations, and drivers. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us, or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices, could adversely affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. The Transportation Security Administration (the “TSA”) of the DHS has adopted regulations that require determination by the TSA that each driver who applies for or renews his or her license for carrying hazardous materials is not a security threat. This could reduce the pool of qualified drivers, which could require us to increase driver compensation, limit our fleet growth, or let trucks sit idle. These regulations also could complicate the matching of available equipment with hazardous material shipments, thereby increasing our response time on customer orders and our non-revenue miles. As a result, it is possible we may fail to meet the needs of our customers or may incur increased expenses to do so. These security measures could negatively impact our operating results. Some states and municipalities have begun to restrict the locations and amount of time where diesel-powered tractors, such as ours, may idle, in order to reduce exhaust emissions. These restrictions could force us to alter our drivers’ behavior, purchase on-board power units that do not require the engine to idle, or face a decrease in productivity. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. In addition to direct regulation by the DOT and other agencies, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm-water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial facilities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at the majority of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. Our business also is subject to the effects of new tractor engine design requirements implemented by the EPA such as those that became effective October 1, 2002, and additional EPA emission requirements that became effective in January 2007 and January 2010 which are discussed above under "Risk Factors – Increased prices, reduced productivity, and restricted availability of new revenue equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows." Additional changes in the laws and regulations governing or impacting our industry could affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to shippers. We may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Historically, acquisitions have been a part of our growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. If we fail to make any future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Any acquisitions we undertake could involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities and/or incurring indebtedness. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the acquired company's operations, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, risks of entering into markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience, and the potential loss of customers, key employees, and drivers of the acquired company, all of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we make acquisitions in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. If we are unable to retain our key employees or find, develop, and retain service center managers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon the services of several executive officers and key management employees. The loss of any of their services could have a short-term, negative impact on our operations and profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. Failing to develop and retain a core group of managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We have developed a structured business plan and procedures to prevent a long-term effect on future profitability due to the loss of key management employees. 9 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from several major customers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our top 25 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 71.6% of our gross revenue. This was not significantly different than the previous year. Two customers accounted for approximately 23.9% of revenue in 2009. No other customer accounted for as much as ten percent of revenue. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. If the estimated fair value of auction rate securities continue to remain below cost or if the fair value decreases significantly from the current fair value, we may be required to record an impairment of these investments, through a charge in the consolidated statement of income, which could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings. As of December 31, 2009, all of our auction rate securities were associated with unsuccessful auctions. Upon an unsuccessful auction, the interest rate of the underlying investment is reset to a default interest rate. Until a subsequent auction is successful or the underlying security is called by the issuer, we will be unable to sell these securities. Based on the unsuccessful auctions that began during February 2008 and continued through December 31, 2009, we have classified these investments as long-term investments. In addition, we recorded an adjustment to fair value to reflect the lack of liquidity in these securities through an adjustment to other comprehensive loss. Since auction failures began and continuing through December 31, 2009, there were no instances of delinquencies or non-payment of applicable interest from the issuers. Financial institutions which we originally bought auction rate securities from and whom current auction rate securities are held with, are parties to various settlement agreements with certain regulatory authorities. The settlement agreements provide, among other things, that the financial institutions must use their best efforts to provide liquidity solutions for auction rate securities including facilitating issuer redemptions, restructurings, and other reasonable means. We have no assurance, however, that we will be able to sell these investments and cannot predict whether future auctions related to our auction rate securities will be successful. Should we have liquidity requirements before these financial institutions provide liquidity to auction rate securities, we may be required to discount these securities in order to liquidate them. Based on our current financial position, we do not believe that we will have to sell these securities at a discount, however, if our financial condition changes and we were able to sell them at a discount, it could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. Under current U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for valuing investments reported as available-for-sale, we must value those assets at the prices that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The estimated fair value of the underlying investments as of December 31, 2008 declined below amortized cost of the investments, as a result of liquidity issues in the auction rate markets. As a result of the fair value measurements, we recognized an unrealized loss and reduction to investments, of $8.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The estimated fair value of the underlying investments remained below amortized costs of the investments throughout 2009. A $3.3 million reduction to the unrealized loss was recognized during 2009 due to improved market conditions and the call of some auction rate securities at par value plus accrued interest. We have evaluated the unrealized losses to determine whether this decline is other than temporary. We have concluded the decline in fair value to be temporary and as such have recorded the reduction in investment value as a reduction to stockholders equity. We have the intent and ability to hold these investments until recovery and they continue to maintain an average rating of AAA from nationally recognized rating agencies, therefore there was not any other than temporary impairment recorded in the consolidated statement of income on these investments during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We will continue to monitor these investments and ongoing market conditions in future periods to assess impairments considered to be other than temporary. Should estimated fair value continue to remain below cost or the fair value decrease significantly due to credit related issues, we may be required to record an impairment of these investments, through a charge in the consolidated statement of income. Such impairment could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. Seasonality and the impact of weather affect our operations and profitability. Our tractor productivity decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations, and some shippers reduce their shipments after the winter holiday season. Revenue can also be affected by bad weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers. At the same time, operating expenses increase and fuel efficiency declines because of engine idling and harsh weather which creates higher accident frequency, increased claims, and more equipment repairs. We can also suffer short-term impacts from weather-related events such as hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, and floods that could harm our results or make our results more volatile. 10 Table of Contents Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers’ compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees’ health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We reserve currently for anticipated losses and related expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect trends in our own experience as well as industry trends. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. We do not currently maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage, although we are obligated to indemnify them against certain liabilities they may incur while serving in such capacities. We maintain insurance with licensed insurance carriers for the amounts in excess of our self-insured portion. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Insurance carriers that provide excess insurance coverage to the Company currently and for past claim years have encountered financial issues. We do not currently believe the financial issues faced by our insurance companies will affect our current or prior insurance coverage or our ability to obtain similar insurance in the future. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention when our policies are renewed. During 2009 we increased our retention limits for auto liability coverage from $1 million per occurrence to $2 million per occurrence to partially offset increased insurance costs. If these expenses increase, or if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, or we experience a claim that is covered and our insurance company fails to perform, results of our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on computer and communications systems, and a systems failure could cause a significant disruption to our business. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems and infrastructure. We currently use a centralized computer network and regular communication to achieve system-wide load coordination. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. In the event of a significant system failure, our business could experience significant disruption. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 