ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995): Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future financial performance and financial condition. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Any forward-looking statements that we make herein and in future reports and statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors relating to the economic environment, interest rates, availability of resources, competition, market concentration, land development activities and various governmental rules and regulations, as more fully discussed in this Risk Factors section. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements or risk factors, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and as required by the rules and regulations of the SEC, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. Discussion of our business and operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the risk factors set forth below. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. Because of the cyclical nature of our industry, changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions could adversely affect our business and/or our financial results. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in national and local economic and other conditions. Many of these conditions are beyond our control. These conditions include employment levels and job growth, population growth, changing demographics, availability of financing for homebuyers, consumer confidence, housing demand and levels of new and existing homes for sale. During 2006, the homebuilding industry experienced an industry-wide softening in demand. In many markets, home price appreciation over the past several years attracted real estate investors and speculators. As price appreciation slowed, many investors and speculators decided to reduce their investment in homes, and as a result many markets have experienced and are continuing to experience an over-supply of home inventory, both new homes and resale homes. In response to the higher inventory level of homes, many homebuilders increased the amount of sales incentives offered in an attempt to continue to sell homes. These conditions in the real estate market impacted all of our homebuilding regions during 2006. As a result, we experienced reduced traffic, weakening demand, higher cancellation rates and an over-supply of inventory, all of which contributed to a 35% reduction in new home contracts in 2006 compared to the previous year. As a result of these economic conditions, we have offered, and may continue to offer, certain sales incentives, and in some situations we have lowered our base house prices to aid our sales efforts. These incentives and reductions in base sales prices could negatively impact our financial results. We cannot predict the duration or severity of the current market conditions, nor provide any assurances that the adjustments we have made to our operating strategy to address these conditions will be successful. We face significant competition in our efforts to sell homes and provide mortgage financing. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our local markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, some of which have greater financial, marketing, land acquisition and sales 11 resources than we do. Builders of new homes compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled subcontractors. Currently, many of our homebuilding competitors are offering significant discounts in the markets in which we operate, in an attempt to generate sales and reduce inventory. We also compete with the existing home resale market that provides certain attractions for homebuyers over the new home market, and we believe that the resale market is becoming more of a competitive factor than in the past, particularly in markets that have had more investor buyers, such as Washington, D.C., Tampa, Orlando and West Palm Beach. As a result of the general softening in the real estate market, the impact of competition has begun and may continue to have an unfavorable impact on our ability to sell new homes, which is evidenced by the 35% reduction in our 2006 new home contracts compared to the prior year. In addition to competition within our homebuilding operations, the mortgage financing industry has also become increasingly competitive. M/I Financial competes with outside lenders for the capture of our homebuyers. Competition typically increases during periods in which there is a decline in the refinance activity within the industry. During 2006, M/I Financial experienced a slight decrease in its capture rate and profitability. As a result of lower refinance volume for outside lenders, resulting in increased competition for our homebuyer customer, we expect to experience continued pressure on our capture rate and margins, which could negatively affect earnings. Our land investment exposes us to significant risks, including potential impairment write-downs that could negatively impact our profits if the market value of our inventory declines. We must anticipate demand for new homes several years prior to those homes being sold to homeowners. There are significant risks inherent in controlling or purchasing land, especially as the demand for new homes decreases. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and fluctuations in value can result in reduced profits. Economic conditions could result in the necessity to sell homes or land at a loss, or hold land in inventory longer than planned, which could significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock performance. As a result of softened market conditions in most of our markets, in 2006, we recorded a loss of $71.8 million for impairment of inventory and investments in unconsolidated LLCs and wrote-off $7.0 million relating to land deposits and pre-acquisition costs. It is possible that the estimated cash flows from these inventory positions may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. Additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future, we may be required to evaluate additional inventory positions for potential impairment which may result in additional valuation adjustments which could be significant and could negatively impact our financial results and condition. We cannot make any assurances that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may be negatively impacted. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive because of the length of time from when land or lots are acquired to when the related homes are constructed on those lots and delivered to homebuyers. Our business and earnings depend on our ability to obtain financing to support our homebuilding operations and to provide the resources to carry inventory. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, to support our business. The ability for us to secure the needed capital at terms that are acceptable to us may be impacted by factors beyond our control. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to operate. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions place limitations on the amount of additional indebtedness that may be incurred, limitations on investments, including joint ventures and advances to officers and employees, limitations on the aggregate cost of certain types of inventory we can hold at any one time and limitations on asset dispositions or creation of liens. We are also required to maintain a certain level of net worth and maintain certain ratios, including a minimum interest coverage of two times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and non-cash charges, on a rolling four quarter basis. Based on our current information, we believe we will meet the interest coverage requirement through the third quarter; however, we may fall slightly below this requirement level in the fourth quarter of 2007. We monitor this and other covenant requirements closely and will pursue certain actions should this situation appear probable as we move through the year. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in complying with all restrictions of our indebtedness. 12 Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record warranty and other reserves for homes we sell, based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. We reserve for the costs to cover our self-insured retentions and deductible amounts under theses policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits, based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractors' arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. Contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims many not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. We have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and may become even more costly. The availability and affordability of residential mortgage financing could adversely affect our business. Our business is significantly affected by the impact of interest rates. Higher interest rates may decrease our potential market by making it more difficult for homebuyers to qualify for mortgages or to obtain mortgages at interest rates that are acceptable to them. If mortgage interest rates increase, or experience substantial volatility, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, tighter lending standards for mortgage products may have a negative impact on our business. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for homes in affected areas. Several of our markets, specifically our operations in Florida, North Carolina and Washington, D.C., are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, hurricanes and flooding. In addition, our operations in the Midwest can be impacted by severe storms, including tornados. The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could adversely impact our results of operations. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry has, from time to time, experienced significant material and labor shortages in insulation, drywall, brick, cement and certain areas of carpentry and framing, as well as fluctuations in lumber prices and supplies. Any shortages of long duration in these areas could delay construction of homes, which could adversely affect our business and increase costs. We have not experienced any significant issues with availability of building materials or skilled labor. We are subject to extensive government regulations which could restrict our homebuilding or financial services business. The homebuilding industry is subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. This includes local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Such regulation also affects construction activities, including construction materials that must be used in certain aspects of building design, as well as sales activities and other dealings with homebuyers. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, increasingly stringent requirements may be imposed on homebuilders and developers in the future. Although we cannot predict the impact on us to comply with any such requirements, such requirements could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to periodic delays or may be precluded from developing certain projects due to building moratoriums. These moratoriums generally relate to insufficient water supplies or sewage facilities, delays in utility hookups or inadequate road capacity within the specific market area or subdivision. These moratoriums can occur prior to, or subsequent to, commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. 13 We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given project vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance costs (including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control) and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all cases, we have a general practice of requiring resolution of environmental issues prior to purchasing land in an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments. In addition to the laws and regulations that relate to our homebuilding operations, M/I Financial is subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the underwriting, servicing and sale of mortgage loans. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could impact our operations and result in additional expenses for identifying and training new personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 