ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995): Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future financial performance and financial condition. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “envisions,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Any forward-looking statements that we make herein and in future reports and statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors relating to the economic environment, interest rates, availability of resources, competition, market concentration, land development activities and various governmental rules and regulations, as more fully discussed in this Risk Factors section. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law or the rules and regulations of the SEC, we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. Discussions of our business and operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the risk factors set forth below. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks The homebuilding industry is experiencing a prolonged and severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. Beginning in, and continuing since, 2006, many of our markets and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole have experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. In many markets, a rapid increase in new and existing home prices in the years leading up to and including 2006 reduced housing affordability relative to consumer incomes and tempered buyer demand. Also since the downturn began, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead accelerated their efforts to sell residential property they had previously acquired. These trends, which have been more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, have resulted in fewer overall home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts to close home sales in the years following 2006. These negative supply and demand trends have been exacerbated since 2008 by increasing sales of lender-owned homes, a severe downturn in general economic conditions, rising unemployment, turmoil in credit and consumer lending markets and tighter lending standards. Reflecting the impact of this difficult environment, we, like many other homebuilders, have experienced to varying degrees since the housing market downturn began, declines in net orders, decreases in the average selling price of new homes we have sold and delivered and reduced margins relative to years prior to the housing market downturn, and we have generated operating losses. Although we saw some improvement in net orders and margins in 2009, we can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market or our business will improve substantially in the near future. If economic conditions and employment remain weak and mortgage foreclosures, delinquencies and short sales continue rising in 2010, there would likely be a corresponding adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, including, but not limited to, our number of homes delivered and the amount of revenues we generate. 12 Additional adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live could further reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could adversely affect our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or an oversupply of homes for sale may further reduce demand, depress prices for our homes and cause home buyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes. This, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing. Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing, and interest rate levels. The mortgage lending industry has experienced and may continue to experience significant challenges. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. Although our financial services subsidiary offers mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. Unavailability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including, in some instances, causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. Increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry prior to 2006, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increase, either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the non-traditional and sub-prime financing products previously available and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. In addition, tighter lending standards for mortgage products and volatility in the sub-prime and alternative mortgage markets may have a negative impact on our business by making it more difficult for certain of our homebuyers to obtain financing or resell their existing homes. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse affect on our sales volume. Our land investment exposes us to significant risks, including potential impairment write-downs, that could negatively impact our profits if the market value of our inventory declines. We must anticipate demand for new homes several years prior to those homes being sold to homeowners. There are significant risks inherent in controlling or purchasing land, especially as the demand for new homes decreases. There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, and fluctuations in value can result in reduced profits. Economic conditions could result in the necessity to sell homes or land at a loss, or hold land in inventory longer than planned, which could significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and stock performance. As a result of softened market conditions in all of our markets, since 2006, we have recorded a loss of $487.7 million for impairment of inventory and investments in Unconsolidated LLCs (including $63.5 million related to discontinued operation), and have written-off $17.6 million relating to abandoned land transactions (including $1.5 million related to discontinued operation). It is possible that the estimated cash flows from these inventory positions may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. Additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future, we may be required to evaluate additional inventory for potential 13 impairment, which may result in additional valuation adjustments, which could be significant and could negatively impact our financial results and condition. We cannot make any assurances that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful. If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive homebuilding industry, our financial results and growth may suffer. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales in each of our markets with national, regional, and local developers and homebuilders, existing home resales and, to a lesser extent, condominiums and available rental housing. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources or lower costs than we do. Competition among both small and large residential homebuilders is based on a number of interrelated factors, including location, reputation, amenities, design, quality, and price. Competition is expected to continue and become more intense, and there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently operate and in markets we may enter in the future. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results and growth could suffer. If economic conditions worsen or the current conditions continue for an extended period of time, those economic conditions could have continued negative consequences on our operations, financial position, and cash flows. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as by general and local economic conditions, such as: ● employment levels; ● availability of financing for homebuyers; ● interest rates; ● consumer confidence; ● levels of new and existing homes for sale; ● demographic trends; and ● housing demand. Continued weakness in the homebuilding industry could have an adverse effect on us. It could require that we write down more assets, dispose of assets, reduce operations, restructure our debt and/or raise new equity to pursue our business plan, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our current shareholders. Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because, should the costs of land, materials and labor increase, it would require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. Although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials, labor and land development costs. Under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. Reduced margins in such cases make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land. Our limited geographic diversification could adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in our markets declines. We have operations in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida. Our limited geographic diversification could adversely impact us if the homebuilding business in our current markets should continue to decline, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions. Operational Risks The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to operate. The Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated October 6, 2006 (as amended, the “Credit Facility”) and the indenture governing our $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior notes due 2012 (our “Senior Notes”) impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions under the indenture governing our Senior Notes relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions, and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, our Credit Facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. 14 Currently, we believe the most restrictive covenant of the Credit Facility is minimum tangible net worth. Failure to comply with this covenant or any of the other restrictions or covenants of our Credit Facility could result in a default under the Credit Facility, which, in turn, could result in a default under the indenture governing our Senior Notes as well as M/I Financial’s $30.0 million Secured Credit Agreement (the “MIF Credit Agreement”). In addition, if a default occurs, the affected lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Availability under the Credit Facility is also subject to satisfaction of a secured borrowing base. We are permitted to grow the borrowing base by adding additional cash and/or inventory as collateral securing the Credit Facility. We could also be precluded from incurring additional borrowings under our Credit Facility, which could impair our ability to maintain sufficient working capital. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the ability to operate our business. The indenture governing our Senior Notes contains restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of the Company to pay dividends on common and preferred shares, as well as the ability to repurchase any shares. If our “restricted payments basket,” as defined in the indenture governing our Senior Notes, is less than zero, we are restricted from making certain payments, including dividends, as well as repurchasing any shares. We are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common shares and our 9.75% Series A Preferred Shares, as well as repurchasing any shares. We cannot resume making such payments until such time as the basket becomes positive or the Senior Notes are repaid, and our Board authorizes such payments. If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may be negatively impacted. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive because of the length of time from when land or lots are acquired to when the related homes are constructed on those lots and delivered to homebuyers. Our business and earnings depend on our ability to obtain financing to support our homebuilding operations and to provide the resources to carry inventory. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt, or additional bank borrowings, to support our business. Our ability to secure the needed capital at terms that are acceptable to us may be impacted by factors beyond our control. In addition, our Credit Facility expires in October 2010. We expect to seek a replacement credit facility in connection with the expiration of our current Credit Facility. Based upon the continuing constriction of the credit markets, we may be unable to replace the Credit Facility, and if we are able to replace the Credit Facility, the terms of the new facility may be materially different from our current terms. Such revised terms or the price of credit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity and require us to use cash or other sources of capital to fund our business operations. Further, in the event we are unable to replace the Credit Facility, our future liquidity may be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and require us to use cash or other sources of capital to fund our business operations. The credit agreement of our financial services segment will expire in May 2010. M/I Financial, our financial services segment, is party to the MIF Credit Agreement. M/I Homes, Inc. has provided a guarantee of the performance and payment obligations of M/I Financial under the MIF Credit Agreement of up to $15.0 million. M/I Financial uses the MIF Credit Agreement to finance its lending activities until the loans are delivered to third party buyers. The MIF Credit Agreement will expire on May 15, 2010. If we are unable to replace the MIF Credit Agreement when it matures in May 2010, it could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment. If our financial performance further declines, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and Senior Notes. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes impose certain restrictions on our operations. The most significant restrictions under the indenture governing our Senior Notes relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, our Credit Facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. Also, while our Credit Facility aggregate commitment is $150 million, we can only borrow up to the amount we have secured by real estate and/or cash in accordance with the provisions of our Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2009, we had borrowing base availability of $24.5 million. If markets strengthen, we might have to seek increased borrowing capacity. While we currently are in compliance with the financial covenants in the Credit Facility, if we had to record significant additional impairments in the future, this could cause us to fail to comply with certain Credit Facility financial covenants. Such an event would give the lenders the right to cause any amounts we owe under the Credit Facility to become immediately due. If we were unable to repay the borrowings when they became due, that could 15 entitle the holders of the Senior Notes to cause the sums evidenced by those notes to become due immediately. Under such circumstances, we would not be able to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below the long term fair values, and the carrying values, of the assets. Reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional carrying costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these additional costs. Also, we frequently enter into contracts to purchase land and make deposits that may be forfeited if we do not fulfill our purchase obligation within specified periods. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness could magnify other risk factors. Under the terms of the indenture governing our Senior Notes and the terms of our Credit Facility, we have the ability, subject to our debt covenants, to incur additional amounts of debt. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify the risks described above. In addition, certain obligations, such as standby letters of credit and performance and maintenance bonds issued in the ordinary course of business, are not considered indebtedness under the indenture governing our Senior Notes (and may be secured) and are therefore not subject to limits in our debt covenants. We could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms is a key factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. As of the date of this report, our credit rating by Moody’s is B3 and our credit rating by Standard & Poor’s is B-. Downgrades of our credit rating by either of these credit agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us to access external financing. Errors in estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses could have a material impact on us. In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These estimates include, but are not limited to, those related to the recognition of income and expenses; impairment of assets; estimates of future improvement and amenity costs; estimates of sales levels and sales prices; capitalization of costs to inventory; provisions for litigation, insurance and warranty costs; cost of complying with government regulations; and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate and adjust our estimates based upon the information then currently available. Actual results may differ from these estimates, assumptions, and conditions. If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans. We sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. If there is a significant decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and it would require us to make arrangements with banks or other financial institutions to fund our buyers’ closings. If we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to modify our origination model, which, among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes. Federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could adversely affect our business. Changes in federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. 16 We compete on several levels with homebuilders that may have greater sales and financial resources, which could hurt future earnings. We compete not only for home buyers but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, and skilled labor, often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by other homebuilders. Our competitors include other local, regional, and national homebuilders, some of which have greater sales and financial resources. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry, together with current market conditions, have resulted in and could continue to result in: ● difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices; ● lower selling prices; ● increased selling incentives; ● lower sales; ● lower profit margins; ● impairments in the value of inventory; and ● delays in construction. Any of these problems could increase costs and/or lower profit margins. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we generated net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards for the year ending December 31, 2009, and it’s possible we will generate net NOL carryforwards in future years. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may use these NOL carryforwards to offset future earnings and reduce our federal income tax liability. As a result, we believe these NOL carryforwards could be a substantial asset for us. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an “ownership change,” which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOL carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the company’s common stock (including changes involving a shareholder becoming a 5% shareholder) or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. On March 13, 2009, our shareholders adopted an amendment to our code of regulations to impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our common shares to preserve the tax treatment of our NOLs and built-in losses (the “NOL Protective Amendment”). The transfer restrictions imposed by the NOL Protective Amendment generally restrict (unless otherwise approved by our board of directors) any direct or indirect transfer if the effect would be to: (a) increase the direct or indirect ownership of our shares by any person or group of persons from less than 5% to 5% or more of our common shares; or (b) increase the percentage of our common shares owned directly or indirectly by a person or group of persons owning or deemed to own 5% or more of our common shares. Although the NOL Protective Amendment is intended to reduce the likelihood of an “ownership change” that could adversely affect us, we cannot provide assurance that the restrictions on transferability in the NOL Protective Amendment will prevent all transfers that could result in such an “ownership change.” There also can be no assurance that the transfer restrictions in the NOL Protective Amendment will be enforceable against all of our shareholders absent a court determination confirming such enforceability. The transfer restrictions may be subject to challenge on legal or equitable grounds. If we undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common shares, including transactions initiated by the Company, and including transactions involving a shareholder becoming an owner of 5% or more of our common shares and purchases and sales of our common shares by existing 5% shareholders, our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and recognize certain built-in losses could be limited by Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our NOL carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our NOL carryforwards could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if pending or future legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor. On March 14, 2008, a former employee filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court, Middle District of Florida, on behalf of himself and other similarly situated construction superintendents. The plaintiff 17 alleges that he and other construction superintendents were misclassified as exempt and not paid overtime compensation under the Fair Labor Standards Act and seeks equitable relief, damages and attorneys’ fees. Six other individuals have filed consent forms to join the action. We filed an answer on or about August 21, 2008 and intend to vigorously defend against the claims. On March 5, 2009, a resident of Florida and an owner for the Southern District of Ohio, on behalf of himself and other similarly situated owners and residents of homes in the United States or alternatively in Florida. The plaintiff alleges that we built his home with defective drywall manufactured by certain of the defendants that contains sulfur or other organic compounds capable of harming the health of individuals and damaging metals. The plaintiff alleges physical and economic damages and seeks legal and equitable relief, medical monitoring and attorneys’ fees. The Company filed a responsive pleading on or about April 30, 2009. The same homeowner and five others are named as plantiffs in an omnibus class action complaint filed in December 2009 arising from the same type claims. The Company intends to vigorously defend against the claims. Please see the risk factor below captioned “Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business which may lead to additional reserves or expenses” for more information regarding the drywall matter. Due to the inherent uncertainties of these matters, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these class actions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are also named as defendants in other legal proceedings which are routine and incidental to our business. Although management currently believes that the ultimate resolution of these other matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, such matters are subject to inherent uncertainties. As a result, while we have recorded a liability to provide for the anticipated costs, including legal defense costs, associated with the resolution of these other matters, there can be no assurance that the costs to resolve them will not differ from the recorded estimates and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for the periods in which the matters are resolved. Similarly, if additional claims are filed against us in the future, the negative outcome of one or more of such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we are often required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements, and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise, and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be impacted adversely. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings, and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and their accompanying standards, implementation guidelines, interpretations, and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, estimates and assumptions, such as revenue recognition, inventory valuations, and income taxes. Changes in interpretations could significantly affect our reported revenues, earnings, and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. New accounting standards, i.e. International Financial Reporting Standards, could result in increased expenses as we would have to modify our current practices and systems in order to comply with the standards. We can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. Although we expect all of our employees, officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we actively move to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible. Sometimes our employees have been aware of these practices but did not take steps to prevent them, and we have taken disciplinary action against such employees, including in some instances, terminating their employment. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices 18 that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal and, in some cases, state, taxable income. If the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income taxdeductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local, and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with GAAP, it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and results of operations on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Factors that contribute to this variability include: (a) timing of home deliveries and land sales; (b) delays in construction schedules due to strikes, adverse weather, acts of God, reduced subcontractor availability, and governmental restrictions; (c) our ability to acquire additional land or options for additional land on acceptable terms; (d) conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy; (e) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, changes in prevailing interest rates, and the availability of mortgage financing; and (f) costs and availability of materials and labor. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business which may lead to additional reserves or expenses. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record warranty and other reserves for homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, workers’ compensation, and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. We reserve for the costs to cover our self-insured retentions and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractors’ arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. As a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in some cases waived our customary insurance requirements. We have responded to the increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and may become even more costly or may not be available at rates that are acceptable to us. There has been significant publicity about homes constructed with defective imported drywall during the past year. During 2009, we accrued $12.2 million for the repair of these homes and have charged $4.0 million against that accrual. Since the discovery of defective drywall, we have implemented procedures in every division to investigate homes for signs of the presence of defective drywall and those investigations are continuing. Based on those 19 investigations, we do not believe that defective drywall was used in any division outside of Florida. The Company is, however, continuing its investigation of homes in order to determine whether there are additional homes, not yet inspected, with defective drywall and resulting damage. We are unable to estimate our total exposure relating to the defective drywall at this time because, among other reasons, we have not completed our investigation of homes, tracing the defective drywall through the supply chain has proven difficult, and the manufacturers of the drywall have not cooperated in our investigations. If we identify additional homes than the homes identified thus far as having defective imported drywall, we may increase the accrual for costs of repair attributable to defective imported drywall. We are seeking reimbursement of costs to repair homes affected by this drywall from our subcontractors, their insurers, the manufacturers and others. However, we have not currently reflected any reimbursement in our costs as such reimbursements are not probable or estimable at this time. Please see the risk factor above captioned “Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if pending or future legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor” for more information regarding the risks surrounding defective drywall litigation. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for homes in affected areas. Several of our markets, specifically our operations in Florida, North Carolina and Washington, D.C., are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, hurricanes, and flooding. In addition, our operations in the Midwest can be impacted by severe storms, including tornados. The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry has, from time to time, experienced significant material and labor shortages in insulation, drywall, brick, cement and certain areas of carpentry and framing, as well as fluctuations in lumber prices and supplies. Any shortages of long duration in these areas could delay construction of homes, which could adversely affect our business and increase costs. To date, however, we have not experienced any significant issues with availability of building materials or skilled labor. We are subject to extensive government regulations, which could restrict our homebuilding or financial services business. The homebuilding industry is subject to numerous and increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. This includes local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Such regulation also affects construction activities, including construction materials that must be used in certain aspects of building design, as well as sales activities and other dealings with homebuyers. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, increasingly stringent requirements may be imposed on homebuilders and developers in the future. Although we cannot predict the impact on us to comply with any such requirements, such requirements could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to periodic delays or may be precluded from developing certain projects due to building moratoriums. These moratoriums generally relate to insufficient water supplies or sewage facilities, delays in utility hookups, or inadequate road capacity within the specific market area or subdivision. These moratoriums can occur prior to, or subsequent to, commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning consumer protection matters and the protection of health and the environment. These statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and any failure to comply therewith, could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures and have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, or business. The particular consumer protection matters regulate the marketing, sales, construction, closing and financing of our homes. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given project vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance costs (including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control), and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all cases, we have a general practice of requiring resolution of environmental issues prior to purchasing land in an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments. 20 In addition to the laws and regulations that relate to our homebuilding operations, M/I Financial is subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the underwriting, servicing and sale of mortgage loans. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train, and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could materially and adversely impact our operations and result in additional expenses for identifying and training new personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 