Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results of operations and financial condition and the market price for our securities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that cannot be controlled or predicted. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and cash flows. Also see "Forward-looking Statements" within Item 7 in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks The homebuilding industry is experiencing a prolonged and severe downturn that may continue for an indefinite period and adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. Since 2006, many of our markets and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole have experienced a significant and sustained decrease in deman d for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. In many markets, a rapid increase in new and existing home prices in the years leading up to and including 2006 reduced housing affordability relative to consumer incomes and tempered buyer demand. Also since the downturn began, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead accelerated their efforts to sell residential property they had previously acquired. These trends, which have been more pronounced in markets that had experienced the greatest levels of price appreciation, have resulted in fewer overall home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, price concessions and other marketing efforts to close home sales in the years following 2006. These negative supply and demand trends have been exacerbated since 2008 by increasing sales of lender- owned homes, a severe downturn in general economic conditions, unemployment, turmoil in credit and consumer lending markets and tighter lending standards. Reflecting the impact of this difficult environment, we, like many other homebuilders, have experienced to varying degrees since the housing market downturn began, declines in new contracts, decreases in the average selling price of new homes we have sold and delivered and reduced margins relative to years prior to the housing market downturn, and we have generated operating losses. We can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market or our business will improve substantially in the near future. If economic conditions and employment remain weak and mortgage foreclosures, delinquencies and short sales continu e rising, there would likely be a corresponding adverse effect on our business and our results of operations, including, but not limited to, our number of homes delivered and the amount of revenues we generate. Additional adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live could further reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could adversely affect our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. Adverse changes in economic conditions in markets where we conduct our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or an oversupply of homes for sale may further reduce demand, depress prices for our homes and cause home buyers to cancel their agreements to purchase our homes. This, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and continue to adversely affect our financial condition. 12 Further tightening of residential consumer mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements or further volatility in credit and consumer lending markets could adversely affect the availability of residential consumer mortgage loans for some potential purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. Since 2008, the residential consumer mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries have experienced significant instability due to, among other things, relatively high rates of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures on residential consumer mortgage loans and a resulting decline in their market value and the market value of securities backed by such loans. The delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures have been driven in part by persistent poor economic and employment conditions, which have negatively affected borrowers' incomes, and by a decline in the values of many existing homes in various markets below the principal balance of the residential consumer mortgage loans secured by such homes. A number of providers, purchasers and insurers of residential consumer mortgage loans and residential consumer mortgage-backed securities have gone out of business or exited the market, and lenders, investors, regulators and others have questioned the oversight and the adequacy of lending standards for several residential consumer mortgage loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years, including programs offered or supported by the FHA, the VA and the federal government sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Compared to prior period s, this has led to reduced investor demand for residential consumer mortgage loans and residential consumer mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity and availability of residential consumer mortgage loan products (particularly subprime and nonconforming loans), and increased down payment requirements and credit risk premiums related to home purchases. It has also led to enhanced regulatory and legislative actions, and government programs focused on modifying the principal balances, interest rates and/or payment terms of existing residential consumer mortgage loans and preventing residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures, which have achieved somewhat mixed results. The reduction in the availability of residential consumer mort gage loan products and providers and tighter residential consumer mortgage loan qualifications and down payment requirements have made it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. Overall, these factors have slowed any general improvement in the housing market, and they have resulted in volatile home purchase cancellation rates and reduced demand for our homes and for residential consumer mortgage loans originated through our M/I Financial subsidiary. These reductions in demand have had a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2010 that may continue in 2011. Potentially exacerbating the foreg oing trends, in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law and established several new standards and requirements (including risk retention obligations) relating to the origination, securitizing and servicing of, and consumer disclosures for, residential consumer mortgage loans. These new standards and requirements are expected to further reduce the availability of and/or increase the costs to borrowers to obtain such loans. Federal regulators and legislators are also discussing steps that may significantly reduce the ability or authority of the FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to purchase or insure residential consumer mortgage loans. In the last few years, the FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have purchased or insured substantially all new residential consumer mortgage loans originated by lenders. Also in 2010, and as noted above, investors in residential consumer mortgage-backed securities, as well as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, increasingly demanded that lenders, brokers and other institutions, or their agents, repurchase the loans underlying the securities based on alleged breaches of underwriting standards or of representations and warranties made in connection with transferring the loans. These “put-back” demands are expected to continue into 2011 and, to the extent successful, could cause lenders and brokers to further curtail their residential consumer mortgage loan origination activities due to reduced liquidity. Concerns about the soundness of the residential consumer mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries have also been heightened recently due to allegedly widespread errors by lenders or brokers, or their agents, in the processing of residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures and sales of foreclosed homes, leading to voluntary or involuntary delays and higher costs to finalize foreclosures and foreclosed home sales, and greater court and regulatory scrutiny. In addition to having a potential nega tive impact on the origination of new residential consumer mortgage loans, these disruptions in residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosures and lender-owned home sales may make it more difficult for us to accurately assess the supply of and prevailing prices for unsold homes and/or the overall stability of particular housing markets. Many of our homebuyers obtain financing for their home purchases from our M/I Financial subsidiary. If, due to higher costs, reduced liquidity, heightened risk retention obligations and/or new operating restrictions or regulatory reforms related to or arising from compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act, residential consumer mortgage loan put-back demands or internal or external reviews of its residential consumer mortgage loan foreclosur e processes, or other factors or business decisions, M/I Financial is limited or unable to make loan products available to our homebuyers, our home sales and our homebuilding and financial services results of operations may be adversely affected. For instance, in the fourth quarter of 2010, stricter lending standards led to an increase in our cancellation rate compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The degree to which this more cautious approach to providing loans to our homebuyers continues into 2011 is unclear, and we can provide no assurance that the trend of tighter residential consumer mortgage lending standards will slow or reverse in the foreseeable future. 13 Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. While we have been successful in generating positive operating cash flow since the housing downturn began, we have done so at reduced gross profit levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges compared to the period from 2000 through 2005. Moreover, many of our strategic initiatives during the housing downturn to generate cash and improve our operating efficiency have involved lowering overhead through workforce reductions, for which we incurred significant costs, and reducing our active community count through strategic wind downs, reduced investments or market exits, curbs in development and sales of land interests. These strategic steps have resulted in our generating to varying degrees fewer new contracts, homes delivered and revenues compared to periods before the housing downturn began, and have contributed to the net losses we have recognized in recent years. In an effort to generate higher revenues and restore and maintain our homebuilding operations' profitability, beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2009 and 2010, we rolled out new , more flexible product designs, including our eco series, and we continued to take steps to reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses, and to redeploy our capital into housing markets with perceived higher future growth prospects, such as our entry into the Houston, Texas market. Actions taken to execute our business strategy have helped to narrow our pre-tax loss from operations and net losses and improve our operating margins in 2010 compared to the corresponding year-earlier periods. However, there can be no assurance that these trends will continue in 2011 or at all, that we will successfully increase our average active community count and inventory base with desirable land assets at a reasonable cost, or that we will achieve or maintain profitab ility in the near future. In addition, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we have experienced volatility in our new contracts and in cancellations of home purchase contracts by buyers throughout the present housing downturn, including in 2010. We believe that our volatile new contract and cancellation levels have largely reflected weak homebuyer confidence due to sustained home sales price declines, increased offerings of sales incentives in the marketplace for both new and existing homes, tightened residential consumer mortgage lending standards, and generally poor economic and employment conditions, all of which have prompted homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. Additional volatility arose in 2010 with the April 30, 2010 expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, which likely pulled demand forward into the first two quarters of the year and led to a drop in new contracts and customer traffic in the periods that followed. The relatively tight consumer mortgage lending environment and the ina bility of some homebuyers to sell their existing homes have also led to lower demand for new homes and to volatility in home purchase contract cancellations for us and the homebuilding industry. Many of these factors affecting our new contracts and cancellation rates, and the related market dynamics that put downward pressure on our average selling prices, are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long and to what degree these factors, and the volatility in new contracts and home cancellations we have experienced, will continue. To the extent that these factors continue, and to the extent that they depress our average selling prices, we expect that they will have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Dem and for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing. Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. The mortgage lending industry has experienced and may continue to experience significant challenges. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more diffic ult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. Although our financial services subsidiary offers mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. Unavailability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including, in some instances, causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. Increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry prior to 2006, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increased, either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which increased the inventory of homes available for resale. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales resulted in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers 14 may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have eliminated most of the non-traditional and sub-prime financing products previously available and increased the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. Tighter lending standards for mortgage products may have a negative impact on our business by making it more difficult for certain of our homebuyers to obtain financing or resell their existing homes. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse effect on our sales volume. Our land investment exposes us to significant risks, including potential impairment write-downs, that could negatively impact our profits if the market value of our inventory declines. We must anticipate demand for new homes several years prior to those homes being sold to homeowners. There are significant risks inherent in controlling or purchasing land, especially as the demand for new homes decreases. There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, and fluctuations in value can result in reduced profits. Economic conditions could result in the necessity to sell homes or land at a loss, or hold land in inventory longer than planned, which could significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock performance. As a result of softened market conditions in all of our markets, since 2006, we have recorded an aggregate loss of $500.2 million for i mpairment of inventory and investments in Unconsolidated LLCs (including $63.5 million related to discontinued operation), and have written-off $18.2 million relating to abandoned land transactions (including $1.5 million related to discontinued operation). It is possible that the estimated cash flows from these inventory positions may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. Additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future, we may be required to evaluate additional inventory for potential impairment, which may result in additional valuation adjustments, which could be significant and could negatively impact our financial results and condition. We cannot make any assurances that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful. If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive homebuilding industry, our financial results and growth may suffer. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales in each of our markets with national, regional, and local developers and homebuilders, foreclosures sales, existing home resales and, to a lesser extent, condominiums and available rental housing. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources or lower costs than we do. Competition among both small and large residential homebuilders is based on a number of interrelated factors, including location, reputation, amenities, design, quality and price. Competition is expected to continue and become more intense, and there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently operate and in markets we may enter in the future. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results and growth could suffer. If economic conditions worsen or the current conditions continue for an extended period of time, those economic conditions could have continued negative consequences on our operations, financial position, and cash flows. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as by general and local economic conditions, such as: • Employment levels and job and personal income growth;• availability of and pricing of financing for homebuyers;• short and long-term interest rates;• overall consumer confidence and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular;• demographic trends; • housing demand from population growth, household formation and other demographic changes, among other factors; • U.S. and global financial system and credit market stability;• private party and governmental residential consumer mortgage loan programs, and federal and state regulation of lending and appraisal practices;• federal and state personal income tax rates and provisions, including provisions for the deduction of residential consumer mortgage loan interest payments and other expenses;• the supply of and prices for available new or existing homes (including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosures and short sales) and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property;• homebuyer interest in our current or new product designs and community locations, and general consumer interest in purchasing a home compared to choosing other housing alternatives; and• real estate taxes.< /font>15 Adverse changes in these conditions may affect our business nationally or may be more prevalent or concentrated in particular regions or localities in which we operate. In recent years, unfavorable changes in many of these factors negatively affected all of our served markets, and we expect the widespread nature of the present housing downturn to continue into 2011. Continued weakness in the economy, employment levels and consumer confidence would likely exacerbate the unfavorable trends the housing market has experienced since mid-2006. Fluctuating lumber prices and shortages, as well as shortages or price fluctuations in other building materials or commodities, can have an adverse effect on our business. Inclement weather, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions, and labor shortages or disruptions among key trades, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, can delay the delivery of our homes and/or increase our costs. Civil unrest in our country or others or acts of terrorism can also have a negative effect on our business. The potential difficulties described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to fall or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because of market conditions and because the price of each home we sell is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction begins. The potential difficulties could also lead some homebuyers to cancel or refuse to honor their home purchase contracts altogether. Reflecting the difficult conditions in our served markets and the impact of the termination, expiration or scaling back of homebuyer tax credits and other government programs supportive of home sales, we have experienced volatility in our new contracts and in home purchase contract cancellations in recent years, and we may experience similar or increased volatility in 2011. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs or regulations could lower demand for our homes. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes. Before the housing downturn began, historically low interest rates and the increased availability of specialized residential consumer mortgage loan products, including products requiring no or low down payments, and interest-only and adjustable-rate residential consumer mortgage loans, made purchasing a home more affordable for a number of customers and more available to customers with lower credit scores. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of residential consumer mortgage loan financing or of certain residential consumer mortgage loan products or programs may lead to fewer residential consumer mortgage loans being provided, higher down payment requirements or borrower costs, or a combination of the foregoing, and, as a result, reduce demand for our homes and increase our home purchase contract cancellation rates. As a result of the volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets and in the residential consumer mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries since 2008, the federal government has taken on a significant role in supporting resi dential consumer mortgage lending through its conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, both of which purchase or insure residential consumer mortgage loans and residential consumer mortgage-backed securities, and its insurance of residential consumer mortgage loans through the FHA and the VA. FHA-backing of residential consumer mortgage loans has been particularly important to the residential consumer mortgage finance industry and to our business. In 2010, approximately 58% of our homebuyers (compared to approximately 62% in 2009) that chose to finance with our M/I Financial subsidiary purchased a home using an FHA- or VA-backed loan. The availability and affordability of residential consumer mortgage loans, including interest rates for such loans, could be adversely affected by a scaling back or termination of the federal government's mortgage-related programs or policies. For example, in October 2010, the FHA instituted higher mortgage insurance premiums to help address its low cash reserves and imposed new minimum credit scores and higher down payment requirements for borrowers with lower credit scores for the residential consumer mortgage loans it insures. In addition, due to growing federal budget deficits, the U.S. Treasury may not be able to continue supporting the residential consumer mortgage-related activities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the FHA and the VA at present levels. Because Fannie Mae-, Freddie Mac-, FHA- and VA-backed residential consumer mortgage loan financing is an important factor in marketing and selling many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions in the availability of such government-backed financing could reduce our home sales and adversely affect our results of operations, including the income we earn from M/I Financia l, due to lower levels of residential consumer mortgage loan originations. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Under current U.S. tax law and policy, significant expenses of owning a home, including residential consumer mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations. If the federal gover nment or a state government changes income tax laws, as some policy makers and a presidential commission have proposed, by eliminating or substantially reducing these income tax benefits, the after-tax cost of owning a home could increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for 16 and/or sales prices of new homes. Moreover, in early 2010, our home sales increased in part because of a federal homebuyer tax credit made available to certain qualifying homebuyers until April 30, 2010. The expiration of this homebuyer tax credit adversely affected our new contracts, home purchase contract cancellation rates, customer traffic levels and results of operations in subsequent periods of 2010, as weak consumer confidence and unfavorable economic and employment conditions caused many potential homebuyers to delay or forgo the purchase of a home. It is uncertain whether and to what degree the higher demand driven by the federal homebuyer tax credit might return, if at all. Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a per iod of declining home sale prices. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because, if the costs of land, materials and labor increase, this would require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. Although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the environment in which we are currently operating, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials, labor and land development costs. Under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. Reduced margins in such cases makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land.< /font> Our limited geographic diversification could adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in our markets declines. We have operations in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Florida and have recently entered Texas. Our limited geographic diversification could adversely impact us if the homebuilding business in our current markets should continue to decline, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions. Operational Risks If we are unable to obtain suitable financing, our business may be negatively impacted. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive because of the length of time from when land or lots are acquired to when the rela ted homes are constructed on those lots and delivered to homebuyers. Our business and earnings depend on our ability to obtain financing to support our homebuilding operations and to provide the resources to carry inventory. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt, or additional bank borrowings, to support our business. Our ability to secure the needed capital on terms that are acceptable to us may be impacted by factors beyond our control. In the event we are unable to obtain suitable financing, our future liquidity may be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and require us to use cash or other sources of capital to fund our business operations. The credit agreement of our financial services segment will expire in April 2011. M/I Financial is party to a $45 million secured credit agreement dated April 27, 2010 (the “MIF Credit Agreement”). M/I Financial uses the MIF Credit Agreement to finance its lending activities until the loans are delivered to third party buyers. The MIF Credit Agreement will expire on April 26, 2011. If we are unable to renew or replace the MIF Credit Agreement when it matures, it could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment. Reduced numbers of home sales may force us to absorb additional carrying costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these additional costs. Also, we frequently enter into contracts to purchase land and make deposits that may be forfeited if we do not fulfill our purchase obligation within specified periods. We could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms is a key factor in growing our business and operations in a profitable manner. As of the date of this report, our credit rating by Moody's is B3 and our credit rating by Standard & Poor's is B-. Downgrades of our credit rating by either of these credit agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us to access external financing. 17 Errors in estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses could have a material impact on us. In the ordinary course of business, we must make estimates and judgme nts that affect decisions about how we operate and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates include, but are not limited to, those related to: recognition of income and expenses; impairment of assets; estimates of future improvement and amenity costs; estimates of sales levels and sales prices; capitalization of costs to inventory; provisions for litigation, insurance and warranty costs; cost of complying with government regulations; and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate and adjust our estimates based upon the information then currently available. Actual results may differ from these estimates, assumptions and conditions. < font style="font-family:inherit;font-size:10pt;font-style:italic;font-weight:bold;">If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans. We sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, although we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. If there is a significant decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and we would be required to make arrangements with banks or other financial institutions to fund our buyers' closings. If we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to modify our origination model, which, among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes. We compete on several levels with homebuilders that may have greater sales and financial resources, which could hurt future earnings. We compete not only for homebuyers but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor, often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by other homebuilders. Our competi tors include other local, regional and national homebuilders, some of which have greater sales and financial resources than us. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry, together with current market conditions, have resulted in and could continue to result in: • Difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices;• lower selling prices;• increased selling incentives;• lower sales;• lower profit margins;< tr>• impairments in the value of inventory; and• delays in construction. If we are unable to successfully compete within the homebuilding industry, this could lead to increased costs and/or lower profit margins. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we generated net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards for the year ending December 31, 2010, and it is possible that we will generate net NOL carryforwards in future years. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), we may use these NOL carryforwards to offset future earnings and reduce our federal income tax liability. As a result, we believe these NOL carryforwards could be a substantial asset for us. Section 382 of the Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an “ownership change,” which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOL carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the company's common stock (including changes involving a shareholder becoming a 5% shareholder) or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. In March 2009, we amended our code of regulations to impose certain restrictions on the transfer of our common shares to preserve the tax treatment of our NOLs and built-in losses (the “NOL Protective Amendment”). The transfer restrictions imposed by the NOL Protective Amendment generally restrict (unless o therwise approved by our board of directors) any direct or indirect transfer if the effect would be to: (i) increase the direct or indirect ownership of our shares by any person or group of persons from less than 5% to 5% or more of our common shares; or (ii) increase the percentage of our common shares owned directly or indirectly 18 by a person or group of persons owning or deemed to own 5% or more of our common shares. Although the NOL Protective Amendment is intended to reduce the likelihood of an “ownership change” that could adver sely affect us, we cannot provide assurance that the restrictions on transferability in the NOL Protective Amendment will prevent all transfers that could result in such an “ownership change.” There also can be no assurance that the transfer restrictions in the NOL Protective Amendment will be enforceable against all of our shareholders absent a court determination confirming such enforceability. The transfer restrictions may be subject to challenge on legal or equitable grounds. If we undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Code as a result of future transactions involving our common shares, including transactions initiated by the Company, and including transactions involving a shareholder becoming an owner of 5% or m ore of our common shares and purchases and sales of our common shares by existing 5% shareholders, our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and recognize certain built-in losses could be limited by Section 382 of the Code. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our NOL carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our NOL carryforwards could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if pending or future legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor. On March 5, 2009, a resident of Florida and an owner of one of our homes filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, on behalf of himself and other similarly situated owners and residents of homes in the United States or alternatively in Florida, against the Company and certain other identified and unidentified parties (the “Initial Action”). The plaintiff alleged that the Company built his home with defective drywall, manufactured and supplied by certain of the defendants, that contains sulfur or other organic compounds capable of harming the health of individuals and damaging metals. The plaintiff alleged physical and economic damages and sought legal and equitable relief, medical monitoring and attorney's fees. The Company filed a responsive pleading on or about April 30, 2009. This ca se was consolidated with other similar actions not involving the Company and transferred to the Eastern District of Louisiana pursuant to an order from the United States Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation for coordinated pre-trial proceedings (collectively, the “In Re: Chinese Manufactured Drywall Product Liability Litigation”). In connection with the administration of the In Re: Chinese Manufactured Drywall Product Liability Litigation, the same homeowner and seven other homeowners were named as plaintiffs in omnibus class action complaints filed in and after December 2009 against certain identified manufacturers of drywall and others (including the Company), including one homeowner named as a plaintiff in an omnibus class action complaint filed in March 2010 against various unidentified manufacturers of drywall and others (including the Company) (collectively, the “MDL Omnibus Actions”). As they relate to the Company, the Initial Action and the MDL Omnibus Actions address s ubstantially the same claims and seek substantially the same relief. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company entered into agreements with three of those homeowners named as plaintiffs pursuant to which the Company agreed to make repairs to their homes consistent with repairs made to the homes of other homeowners. As a result of those agreements, the Initial Action has been resolved, and those three homeowners are no longer parties to any of the MDL Omnibus Actions. The Company intends to vigorously defend against the remaining claims. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of the MDL Omnibus Actions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have also been named as defendants in other claims, complaints and legal actions which are routine and incidental to our business. While management currently believes that the ultimate resolution of these other matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, such matters are subject to inherent uncertainties. We have recorded a liability to provide for the anticipated costs, including legal defense costs, associated with the resolution of these other matters. However, it is possible that the costs to resolve these other matters could differ from the recorded estimates and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for the periods in which the matters are resolved. Similarly, if additional claims are filed against us in the future, the negative outcome of one or more of such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to operate and, if our financial performance further declines, we may be unable to maintain compliance with the covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness. Our three-year $140 million secured revolving credit facility dated June 9, 2010 (the “Credit Facility”) and the indentures governing our outstanding 6.875% Senior Notes due 2012 (the “2012 Senior Notes”) and outstanding 8.625% Senior Notes due 2018 (the “2018 Senior Notes”) impose restrictions on our operations and activities. These restrictions, and/or our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to operate our business. 19 The Credit Facility requires complian ce with certain financial covenants, including a minimum consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. Currently, we believe the most restrictive covenant of the Credit Facility is to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth. Failure to comply with this covenant or any of the other restrictions or covenants of the Credit Facility, whether because of a decline in our operating performance or otherwise, could result in a default under the Credit Facility. If a default occurs, the affected lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, which in turn could cause a default under the documents governing our other indebtedness, if there is an amount outstanding and we are not able to repay such amount from other sources. If this happens and we are unable to obtain waivers from the required lenders, the lenders could exercise their rights under such documents, including forcing us i nto bankruptcy or liquidation. Also, while the aggregate commitment of the Credit Facility is $140 million, we can only borrow up to the amount we have secured by real estate and/or cash in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Facility. The secured borrowing base in the Credit Facility could preclude us from incurring additional borrowings, which could impair our ability to maintain sufficient working capital. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. The indentures governing the 2012 Senior Notes and the 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to pay dividends on common and preferred shares, or to repurchase any shares. Our ability to make such payments is limited to the amount of our “restricted payments basket,” as defined in each of the indentures. As a result of a current deficit in our restricted payments basket with respect to the 2012 Senior Notes, we are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common shares and our 9.75% Series A Preferred Shares, as well as from repurchasing any shares. We cannot resume making such payments until such time as (1) either the restricted payments basket becomes positive, as a result of cumulative positive earnings in excess of the current deficit amount, or the 2012 Senior Notes are repaid in full, and (2) our Board of Directors authorizes such payments. The indentures governing the 2012 Senior Notes and the 2018 Senior Notes also contain covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness or liens; •make investments; •consolidate or merge with or into other companies; or •liquidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our businesses and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Failure to comply with these covenants or any of the other restrictions or covenants contained in the indentures governing the 2012 Senior Notes or the 2018 Senior Notes could result in a default under such documents, in which case holders of the 2012 Senior Notes and/or the 2018 Senior Notes may be entitled to cause the sums evidenced by such notes to become due immediately. Under such circumstances, we may be unable to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we may have to do at prices well below the long-term fair values and carrying values of the assets. Our ability to comply with the foregoing restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and i ndustry conditions. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, and we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks created by our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $276.7 million of indebtedness outstanding and $23.5 million of available borrowings, in each case excluding issuances of letters of credit. In addition, under the terms of the Credit Facility and the documents governing our other indebte dness, we have the ability, subject to applicable debt covenants, to incur additional indebtedness. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify other risks related to us and our business. Our indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur could have a significant adverse effect on our future financial condition. For example: • a significant portion of our cash flow may be required to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • borrowings under the Credit Facility and the MIF Credit Agreement bear, and borrowings under any new facility could bear, interest at floating rates, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates; • the terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to borrow additional funds or sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working cap ital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; and • our debt level and the various covenants contained in the Credit Facility and the documents governing our other indebtedness could place us at a relative competitive disadvantage as compared to some of our competitors. < font style="font-family:inherit;">20 The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we are often required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise, and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and the accompanying standards, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, estimates and assumptions, such as revenue recognition, inventory valuations and income taxes. Changes in interpretations could significantly affect our reported revenues, earnings and operating results, and could add significant volatility to thos e measures without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. The imposition of new accounting standards (e.g., International Financial Reporting Standards) could result in increased expenses as we may be required to modify our current practices and systems in order to comply with such standards. We can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. Although we expect all of our employees, officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations laws, rules or regulations, we actively move to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible. Sometimes our employees have been aware of these practices but did not take steps to prevent them, and we have taken disciplinary action against such employees, including in some instances, terminating their employment. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalti es, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our consolidated financial statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and results of operations on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Factors that contribute to this variability include: (i) the timing of home deliveries a nd land sales; (ii) delays in construction schedules due to strikes, adverse weather, acts of God, reduced subcontractor availability and governmental restrictions; (iii) our ability to acquire additional land or options for additional land on acceptable terms; (iv) conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy; (v) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, changes in prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; and (vi) costs and availability of materials and labor.21 Historically, a significant percentage of our home purchase contracts are entered into in the spring and summer months, and we deliver a corresponding significant percentage of our homes in the fall and winter months. Construction of our homes typically requires approximately four to six months and weather delays that often occur in late winter and early spring may extend this period. As a result of these combined factors, we historically have experienced uneven quarterly results, with lower revenues and operating income generally during the first and second quarters of the year. During the present housing downturn, however, we have experienced lower sales in the spring and summer months and correspondingly fewer homes delivered in the fall and winter months as compared to the period from 2000 through 2005. Moreover, our normal selling patterns were disrupted to a significant extent in 2010 by the federal homebuyer tax credit that was made available to qualifying homebuyers until April 30, 2010. The increased demand driven by the federal tax homebuyer credit in early 2010 resulted in our delivering more homes in the third quarter of 2010 and experiencing lower new contracts and higher cancellations in our third and fourth quarters, in each case compared to a more typical seasonal pattern. With the current difficult market conditions expected to continue into 2011, and the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit, we can make no assurances that our historical seasonal patterns will return in the near future if at all. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business whi ch may lead to additional reserves or expenses. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record warranty and other reserves for homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, workers' compensation, and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. We reserve for the costs to cover our self-insured retentions and deductible amounts under these policies and f or any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractors' arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. As a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in some cases waived our customary insurance requirements. We have responded to the increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by in creasing our self-insured retentions. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and may become even more costly or may not be available at rates that are acceptable to us. There has been significant publicity about homes constructed with defective imported drywall. Since the discovery of defective imported drywall, we implemented procedures in every division to investigate homes for signs of the presence of defective imported drywall. As of December 31, 2010, we have identified approximately 90 homes that have been confirmed as having defective imported drywall installed by our s ubcontractors. All of these homes are located in Florida. We accrued $12.8 million for the repair of these homes, of which $1.3 million remained at December 31, 2010. If we identify additional homes with defective imported drywall, we may increase the accrual for costs of repair attributable to defective imported drywall. During the third quarter of 2010, we received a $2.4 million settlement for claims attributed to the defective imported drywall. We have made demand for additional reimbursement from manufacturers, suppliers, insurers and others for costs we have incurred and may in the future incur in connection with the defective imported drywall; however, no additional recovery has been reflected in our financial statements. See the risk factor captioned “Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if pending or future legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor.” Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for homes in affected areas. Several of our markets, specifically our operations in Florida, North Carolina, Washington, D.C. and Texas, are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, including hurricanes, flooding and tornadoes. In addition, our operations in the Midwest can be impacted by severe storms, including tornados. The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. 22 Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could in crease costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry has, from time to time, experienced significant material and labor shortages in insulation, drywall, brick, cement and certain areas of carpentry and framing, as well as fluctuations in lumber prices and supplies. Any shortages of long duration in these areas could delay construction of homes, which could adversely affect our business and increase costs. To date, however, we have not experienced any significant issues with availability of building materials or skilled labor. We are subject to extensive government regulations, which could restrict our homebuilding or financial services business. The homebuilding industry is subject to numerous and increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. This includes local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Such regulation also affects construction activities, including construction materials that must be used in certain aspects of building design, as well as sales activi ties and other dealings with homebuyers. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, increasingly stringent requirements may be imposed on homebuilders and developers in the future. Although we cannot predict the impact on us to comply with any such requirements, such requirements could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to periodic delays or may be precluded from developing certain projects due to building moratoriums. These moratoriums generally relate to insufficient water supplies or sewage facilities, delays in utility hookups, or inadequate road capacity within the specific market area or subdivision. These moratoriums can occur prior or subsequent to commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning consumer protection matters and the protection of health and the environment. These statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, and any failure to comply therewith, could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or business. The particular consumer protection matters regulate the marketing, sales, construction, closing and financing of our homes. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given project vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance costs (including substantial expenditures for pollutio n and water quality control), and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all cases, we have a general practice of requiring resolution of environmental issues prior to purchasing land in an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments. In addition to the laws and regulations that relate to our homebuilding operations, M/I Financial is subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the underwriting, servicing and sale of mortgage loans. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train, and retain other skilled personnel in the future, this could materially and adversely impact our operations and result in additional expenses for identifying and training new personnel. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 