ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995): Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future financial performance and financial condition. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “envisions,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Any forward-looking statements that we make herein and in future reports and statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors relating to the economic environment, interest rates, availability of resources, competition, market concentration, land development activities and various governmental rules and regulations, as more fully discussed in this Risk Factors section. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law or the rules and regulations of the SEC, we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements or risk factors, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. Discussions of our business and operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the risk factors set forth below. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks The U.S. economy is in the midst of an unprecedented combination of economic turmoil, uncertainty in the credit and financial markets, and worldwide concerns of a financial collapse. Prolonged conditions of this nature could severely impact our ability to operate. The sharp slow-down in the United States (“U.S.”) economy, coupled with an ongoing credit crisis and volatility in the financial markets, could cause continued erosion in home prices and/or demand, and cause further significant inventory write-downs, as well as a reduction in our ability to generate cash flow from operations. The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant downturn, and its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain in the current state of the economy; continued slowdown in our business will continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The downturn in the homebuilding industry, which is in its fourth year, has become one of the most severe in U.S. history. This downturn, which we believe started with a decline in consumer confidence, a decline in home prices, and an oversupply of homes available for sale, has been exacerbated by, among other things, a decline in the overall economy, increasing unemployment, fear of job loss, a decline in the securities markets, the number of homes that are or will be available for sale due to foreclosures, an inability of home buyers to sell their current homes, a deterioration in the credit markets, and the direct and indirect impact of the turmoil in the mortgage loan market. All of these factors, in an economy that is now in recession, have contributed to the significant decline in the demand for new homes. Moreover, the government’s legislative and administrative measures aimed at restoring liquidity to the credit markets and providing relief to homeowners facing foreclosure have only recently begun. It is unclear whether, and to what extent, these measures will effectively stabilize prices and home values or restore consumer confidence and increase demand in the homebuilding industry. As a result of this prolonged downturn, our sales and results of operations have been adversely affected. We have incurred significant inventory impairments and other write-offs, our gross margins have declined significantly, and we incurred a substantial loss, after write-offs, during 2008. We cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of the current challenging conditions, nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the current downturn or the government’s attempts to address the troubles in the economy will be successful. If these conditions persist or continue to worsen, they will further adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 12 Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing. Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing, and interest rate levels. The mortgage lending industry has and may continue to experience significant challenges. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. Although our financial services subsidiary offers mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. Unavailability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including, in some instances, causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. Increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry prior to 2006, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increase, either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the non-traditional and sub-prime financing products previously available and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. In addition, tighter lending standards for mortgage products and volatility in the sub-prime and alternative mortgage markets may have a negative impact on our business by making it more difficult for certain of our homebuyers to obtain financing or resell their existing homes. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse affect on our sales volume. Our land investment exposes us to significant risks, including potential impairment write-downs, that could negatively impact our profits if the market value of our inventory declines. We must anticipate demand for new homes several years prior to those homes being sold to homeowners. There are significant risks inherent in controlling or purchasing land, especially as the demand for new homes decreases. There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, and fluctuations in value can result in reduced profits. Economic conditions could result in the necessity to sell homes or land at a loss, or hold land in inventory longer than planned, which could significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and stock performance. As a result of softened market conditions in all of our markets, since 2006, we have recorded a loss of $432.3 million for impairment of inventory and investments in unconsolidated LLCs (including $63.5 million related to discontinued operation), and have written-off $15.9 million relating to abandoned land transactions (including $1.5 million related to discontinued operation). It is possible that the estimated cash flows from these inventory positions may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. Additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future, we may be required to evaluate additional inventory for potential impairment, which may result in additional valuation adjustments, which could be significant and could negatively impact our financial results and condition. We cannot make any assurances that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful. If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive homebuilding industry, our financial results and growth may suffer. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales in each of our markets with national, regional, and local developers and homebuilders, existing home resales and, to a lesser extent, condominiums and available rental housing. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources or lower costs than 13 we do. Competition among both small and large residential homebuilders is based on a number of interrelated factors, including location, reputation, amenities, design, quality, and price. Competition is expected to continue and become more intense, and there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently operate and in markets we may enter in the future. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results and growth could suffer. If the current downturn becomes more severe or continues for an extended period of time, it would have continued negative consequences on our operations, financial position, and cash flows. Continued weakness in the homebuilding industry could have an adverse effect on us. It could require that we write down more assets, dispose of assets, reduce operations, restructure our debt and/or raise new equity to pursue our business plan, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our current shareholders. Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. Although an excess of supply over demand for new homes, such as the one we are currently experiencing, requires that we reduce prices, rather than increase them, it does not necessarily result in reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. Under those circumstances, the effect of cost increases is to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. That makes it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and has contributed to the significant reductions in the value of our land inventory. Our lack of geographic diversification could adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in our markets declines. We have operations in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida. Our limited geographic diversification could adversely impact us if the homebuilding business in our current markets should continue to decline, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions. Operational Risks If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may be negatively impacted. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive because of the length of time from when land or lots are acquired to when the related homes are constructed on those lots and delivered to homebuyers. Our business and earnings depend on our ability to obtain financing to support our homebuilding operations and to provide the resources to carry inventory. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt, or additional bank borrowings, to support our business. Our ability to secure the needed capital at terms that are acceptable to us may be impacted by factors beyond our control. Reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional carrying costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these additional costs. Also, we frequently enter into contracts to purchase land and make deposits that may be forfeited if we do not fulfill our purchase obligation within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have terminated a number of these contracts, resulting in significant forfeitures of deposits. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to operate. The Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated October 6, 2006 (as amended, the “Credit Facility”) and the indenture governing our senior notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions under the indenture governing our senior notes relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions, and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, our Credit Facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. Currently, we believe the most restrictive covenant of the Credit Facility is minimum tangible net worth. Failure to comply with this covenant or any of the other restrictions or covenants of our Credit Facility could result in a default under the Credit Facility, which, in turn, could result in a default under the Credit Facility, which, in turn, could result in a default under the indenture governing our senior notes as well as other related indebtedness. In addition, if a default occurs, the affected lenders could elect to declare the 14 indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Availability under the Credit Facility is also subject to satisfaction of a secured borrowing base. We are permitted to grow the borrowing base by adding additional cash and/or inventory as collateral securing the revolving Credit Facility. We could also be precluded from incurring additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which could impair our ability to maintain sufficient working capital. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the ability to operate our business. The indenture governing our senior notes contains restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of the Company to pay dividends on common and preferred shares, as well as the ability to repurchase any shares. If our “consolidated restricted payments basket,” as defined in the indenture governing our senior notes, is less than zero, we are restricted from making certain payments, including dividends, as well as repurchasing any shares. We are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common shares and our 9.75% Series A Preferred Shares, as well as repurchasing any shares. We cannot resume making such payments until such time as the basket becomes positive or the senior notes are repaid, and our Board authorizes such payments. If our financial performance further declines, we may not be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facilities and senior notes. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose certain restrictions on our operations. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, our Credit Facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. Also, while our borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility is $150 million, and sufficient in today’s current depressed market, we can only borrow up to the amount we have secured by real estate and/or cash in accordance with the provision of our Credit Facility. If markets strengthen, we might have to seek increased borrowing capacity. While we currently are in compliance with the financial covenants in the Credit Facility, if we had to record significant additional impairments in the future, this could cause us to fail to comply with certain Credit Facility financial covenants. Such an event would give the lenders the right to cause any amounts we owe under Credit Facility to become immediately due. If we were unable to repay the borrowings when they became due, that could entitle the holders of $200 million senior notes to cause the sums evidenced by those notes to become due immediately. Under such circumstances, we would not be able to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which we might have to do at prices well below the long term fair values, and the carrying values, of the assets. The ability to incur additional indebtedness could magnify other risk factors. Under the terms of our indebtedness under the indenture governing our senior notes and under the Credit Facility, we have the ability, subject to our debt covenants, to incur additional amounts of debt. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify the risks described above. In addition, certain obligations, such as standby letters of credit and performance and maintenance bonds issued in the ordinary course of business, are not considered indebtedness under the indenture governing our senior notes (and may be secured) and are therefore not subject to limits in our debt covenants. Our competitive position could suffer if we were unable to take advantage of acquisition opportunities. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and purchase suitable acquisition candidates, as well as our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. Given current market conditions, executing this strategy by identifying opportunities to purchase, at favorable prices, companies that are having problems contending with the current difficult homebuilding environment, may be particularly important. Not properly executing this strategy could put us at a disadvantage in our efforts to compete with other major homebuilders who are able to take advantage of such favorable acquisition opportunities. We could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms is a key factor in continuing to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner. In 2008, Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch have lowered our credit ratings, which may make it more difficult and costly for us to access capital. A further downgrade by any of the principal credit agencies may exacerbate these difficulties. 15 Errors in estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses could have a material impact on us. In the ordinary course of doing business, we must make estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These estimates include, but are not limited to, those related to the recognition of income and expenses; impairment of assets; estimates of future improvement and amenity costs; estimates of sales levels and sales prices; capitalization of costs to inventory; provisions for litigation, insurance and warranty costs; cost of complying with government regulations; and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate and adjust our estimates based upon the information then currently available. Actual results may differ from these estimates, assumptions, and conditions. We conduct certain of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. We currently operate through a number of unconsolidated homebuilding and land development joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest. At December 31, 2008, we had invested an aggregate of $13.1 million in these joint ventures, which had borrowings outstanding of approximately $11.7 million. In addition, as part of our operating strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate additional joint venture opportunities. These investments involve risks and are highly illiquid. There are a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures, and as the use of joint venture arrangements by us and our competitors increases and as market conditions become more challenging, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we lack a controlling interest in these joint ventures and therefore are usually unable to require that our joint ventures sell assets or return invested capital, make additional capital contributions or take any other action without the vote of at least one of our venture partners. Therefore, absent partner agreement, we will be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. The credit agreement of our financial services segment will expire in May 2009. M/I Financial, our financial services segment, is party to a $30.0 million Secured Credit Agreement (the “MIF Credit Agreement”). M/I Financial uses the MIF Credit Agreement to finance its lending activities until the loans are delivered to third party buyers. The MIF Credit Agreement will expire on May 21, 2009. If we are unable to replace the MIF Credit Agreement when it matures in May 2009, it could seriously impede the activities of our financial services segment. If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans. We sell substantially all of the loans we originate within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, although, we remain liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales. If there is a significant decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and it would require us to make arrangements with banks or other financial institutions to fund our buyers’ closings. If we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to modify our origination model, which, among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes. Federal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. Changes in federal laws and regulations could have the effect of curtailing the activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. Recent proposed rule change by HUD could negatively impact our operations and revenue. On November 17, 2008, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) issued a final rule (the “Final Rule”) that amended the regulations pertaining to permissible affiliated business arrangements under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The Final Rule has the effect of prohibiting homebuilders from providing incentives to their buyers for their buyers to use affiliated businesses. The Final Rule was to go into effect on January 16, 2009. A lawsuit has been filed against HUD alleging among other things that HUD did not have the 16 statutory authority to prohibit such incentives. HUD has agreed to delay the implementation of the Final Rule until at least April 16, 2009 in order to give the court time to decide the legality of the Final Rule. If the Final Rule is implemented, it could have an adverse impact on our homebuilding, mortgage lending, and title company operations. We compete on several levels with homebuilders that may have greater sales and financial resources, which could hurt future earnings. We compete not only for home buyers but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, and skilled labor, often within larger subdivisions designed, planned and developed by other homebuilders. Our competitors include other local, regional, and national homebuilders, some of which have greater sales and financial resources. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry, together with current market conditions, have resulted in and could continue to result in: ● difficulty in acquiring suitable land at acceptable prices; ● increased selling incentives; ● lower sales; or ● delays in construction. Any of these problems could increase costs and/or lower profit margins. Our business requires the use of significant amounts of capital, sources for which may include our Credit Facility. In the event we were to amend our Credit Facility, such amendment could result in lower available commitment amounts and less favorable terms and conditions, which could have a negative impact on our borrowing capacity and/or cash flows. Our Credit Facility has an aggregate Commitment amount of $150 million and a maturity date of October 6, 2010. The Credit Facility’s provision for letters of credit is available in the aggregate amount of $100 million. Availability under the Credit Facility is also subject to satisfaction of a secured borrowing base. We are permitted to grow the borrowing base by adding additional cash and/or inventory as collateral securing the revolving Credit Facility. If we were to amend our Credit Facility again in the future, lenders might not be willing to provide credit on terms that are comparable to those governing our existing Credit Facility, in which case our capacity to borrow or issue letters of credit could be reduced significantly, which could require us to use cash or other sources of capital to fund our business operations. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we generated net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards for the year ending December 31, 2008 and it’s possible we will generate net NOL carryforwards in future years. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may use these NOL carryforwards to offset future earnings and reduce our federal income tax liability. As a result, we believe these NOL carryforwards could be a substantial asset for us. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an “ownership change,” which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its common stock over a three-year period, to utilize its NOL carryforwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the company’s common stock (including changes involving a shareholder becoming a 5% shareholder) or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. If we undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common shares, including transactions involving a shareholder becoming an owner of 5% or more of our common shares and purchases and sales of our common shares by existing 5% shareholders, our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and recognize certain built-in losses could be limited by Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our NOL carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our NOL carryforwards could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor. Claims, including one class action suit, have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Should additional claims be filed against us in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, from time to time, by the negative outcome of one or more of such matters. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements, and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise, and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be impacted adversely. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings, and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and their accompanying pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations, and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, estimates and assumptions, such as revenue recognition, inventory valuations, and income taxes. Changes in interpretations could significantly affect our reported revenues, earnings, and operating results, and could add significant volatility to those measures without a comparable underlying change in cash flows from operations. We can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines. Although we expect all of our employees, officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, there are instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible. Sometimes our employees have been aware of these practices but did not take steps to prevent them, and we have taken disciplinary action against such employees, including in some instances, terminating their employment. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, taxable income. If the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local, and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes”, it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could 18 have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and results of operations on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Factors that contribute to this variability include: (a) timing of home deliveries and land sales; (b) delays in construction schedules due to strikes, adverse weather, acts of God, reduced subcontractor availability, and governmental restrictions; (c) our ability to acquire additional land or options for additional land on acceptable terms; (d) conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy; (e) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, changes in prevailing interest rates, and the availability of mortgage financing; and (f) costs and availability of materials and labor. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, personal injury and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record warranty and other reserves for homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, workers’ compensation, and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles, and other coverage limits. We reserve for the costs to cover our self-insured retentions and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractors’ arrangements, and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our warranty, personal injury and construction defect claims in the future. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. We have responded to the increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and may become even more costly or may not be available at rates that are acceptable to us. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for homes in affected areas. Several of our markets, specifically our operations in Florida, North Carolina and Washington, D.C., are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, hurricanes, and flooding. In addition, our operations in the Midwest can be impacted by severe storms, including tornados. The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry has, from time to time, experienced significant material and labor shortages in insulation, drywall, brick, cement and certain areas of carpentry and framing, as well as fluctuations in lumber prices and supplies. Any shortages of long duration in these areas could delay construction of homes, which could adversely affect our business and increase costs. To date, we have not experienced any significant issues with availability of building materials or skilled labor. We are subject to extensive government regulations, which could restrict our homebuilding or financial services business. The homebuilding industry is subject to numerous and increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction, and similar matters. This includes local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Such regulation also affects construction activities, including construction materials that must be used in certain aspects of building design, as well as sales activities and other dealings with homebuyers. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our 19 control. Furthermore, increasingly stringent requirements may be imposed on homebuilders and developers in the future. Although we cannot predict the impact on us to comply with any such requirements, such requirements could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to periodic delays or may be precluded from developing certain projects due to building moratoriums. These moratoriums generally relate to insufficient water supplies or sewage facilities, delays in utility hookups, or inadequate road capacity within the specific market area or subdivision. These moratoriums can occur prior to, or subsequent to, commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning consumer protection matters and the protection of health and the environment. These statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and any failure to comply therewith, could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures and have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, or business. The particular consumer protection matters regulate the marketing, sales, construction, closing and financing of our homes. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given project vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance costs (including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control), and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all cases, we have a general practice of requiring resolution of environmental issues prior to purchasing land in an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments. In addition to the laws and regulations that relate to our homebuilding operations, M/I Financial is subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the underwriting, servicing and sale of mortgage loans. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train, and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could materially and adversely impact our operations and result in additional expenses for identifying and training new personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 