ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995): Certain information included in this report or in other materials we have filed or will file with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us) contains or may contain forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future financial performance and financial condition. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Any forward-looking statements that we make herein and in future reports and statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors relating to the economic environment, interest rates, availability of resources, competition, market concentration, land development activities and various governmental rules and regulations, as more fully discussed in this Risk Factors section. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements or risk factors, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. Discussions of our business and operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the risk factors set forth below. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks The homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. A continuing decline in demand for new homes coupled with an increase in the inventory of available new homes and alternatives to new homes could adversely affect our sales volume and pricing even more than has occurred to date. The homebuilding industry is in the midst of a significant downturn. As a result, we have experienced a significant decline in demand for newly built homes in almost all of our markets. Homebuilders’ inventories of unsold new homes have increased as a result of increased cancellation rates on pending contracts as new homebuyers sometimes find it more advantageous to forfeit a deposit than to complete the purchase of the home. In addition, an oversupply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and existing homes, has depressed prices and reduced margins. This combination of lower demand and higher inventories affects both the number of homes we can sell and the prices at which we can sell them. For example, in 2007 we experienced a significant decline in our sales results, significant reductions in our margins as a result of higher levels of sales incentives and price concessions, and a higher than normal cancellation rate. We do not know how long demand and supply will remain out of balance in markets where we operate or whether, even if demand and supply come back in balance, sales volumes or pricing will return to prior levels. Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing. Demand for homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing, and interest rate levels. During 2007, the mortgage lending industry experienced significant challenges. As a result of increased default rates, particularly (but not entirely) with regard to sub-prime and other non-conforming loans, many lenders have reduced their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Fewer loan products and stricter loan qualification standards have made it more difficult for some borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes. Although our finance company subsidiary offers mortgage loans to potential buyers of most of the homes we build, we may no longer be able to offer financing terms that are attractive to our potential buyers. 11 Unavailability of mortgage financing at acceptable rates reduces demand for the homes we build, including, in some instances, causing potential buyers to cancel contracts they have signed. Increasing interest rates could cause defaults for homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, which could increase the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry prior to 2006, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers could default on their payments and have their homes foreclosed, which would increase the inventory of homes available for resale. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. In addition, tighter lending standards for mortgage products and volatility in the sub-prime and alternative mortgage markets may have a negative impact on our business by making it more difficult for certain of our homebuyers to obtain financing or resell their existing homes. During 2007, approximately 6% of our closings were in the sub-prime category and approximately 10% were in the alternative category, with the majority of these sub-prime and alternative loans being brokered to third party mortgage companies. We define sub-prime mortgages as conventional loans with a credit score below 620 or government loans with a credit score below 575, and we define alternative loans as loans that do not fit in the conforming categories due to a variety of reasons such as documentation, residency or occupancy. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse affect on our sales volume. Our land investment exposes us to significant risks, including potential impairment write-downs that could negatively impact our profits if the market value of our inventory declines. We must anticipate demand for new homes several years prior to those homes being sold to homeowners. There are significant risks inherent in controlling or purchasing land, especially as the demand for new homes decreases. There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed. The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and fluctuations in value can result in reduced profits. Economic conditions could result in the necessity to sell homes or land at a loss, or hold land in inventory longer than planned, which could significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock performance. As a result of softened market conditions in most of our markets, since 2006, we recorded a loss of $215.6 million for impairment of inventory and investments in unconsolidated LLCs and wrote-off $10.6 million relating to abandoned land transactions. It is possible that the estimated cash flows from these inventory positions may change and could result in a future need to record additional valuation adjustments. Additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry worsen in the future, we may be required to evaluate additional inventory for potential impairment, which may result in additional valuation adjustments which could be significant and could negatively impact our financial results and condition. We cannot make any assurances that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful. Operational Risks If we are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may be negatively impacted. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive because of the length of time from when land or lots are acquired to when the related homes are constructed on those lots and delivered to homebuyers. Our business and earnings depend on our ability to obtain financing to support our homebuilding operations and to provide the resources to carry inventory. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or debt or additional bank borrowings, to support our business. Our ability to secure the needed capital at terms that are acceptable to us may be impacted by factors beyond our control. 12 Reduced numbers of home sales force us to absorb additional carrying costs. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these additional costs. Also, we frequently acquire options to purchase land and make deposits that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the options within specified periods. Because of current market conditions, we have terminated a number of these options, resulting in significant forfeitures of deposits we made with regard to the options. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to operate. The Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated October 6, 2006 (the “Credit Facility”) and the indenture governing our senior notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions under the indenture governing our senior notes relate to debt incurrence, sales of assets, cash distributions and investments by us and certain of our subsidiaries. In addition, our Credit Facility requires compliance with certain financial covenants, including a minimum adjusted consolidated tangible net worth requirement and a maximum permitted leverage ratio. Under the interest coverage covenant contained in our Credit Facility, we are required to maintain a minimum ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and non-cash charges (“EBITDA”) to interest incurred (as defined in the Credit Facility). The minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest incurred on a rolling four quarter basis is as follows, subject to certain exceptions discussed below: (1) for the quarter ending March 31, 2008, a ratio of 1.25 to 1.0; (2) for the quarters ending June 30, 2008 through March 31, 2009, a ratio of 1.0 to 1.0; (3) for the quarters ending June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009, a ratio of 1.25 to 1.0; and (4) for each of the quarters including and after December 31, 2009, a ratio of 1.5 to 1.0. The Credit Facility permits this interest coverage ratio to be less than 1.0 to 1.0 for up to three quarters at any time during the term of the Credit Facility, provided that our leverage ratio is less than 1.0 to 1.0 at the end of such quarter. In addition to the rolling four quarter interest coverage ratio, we are also required to maintain a minimum quarter interest coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. The Credit Facility permits this quarter interest coverage ratio to be less than 1.0 to 1.0 for a maximum of four consecutive quarters during the term of the Credit Facility. In addition, under the Credit Facility, we are required to maintain a minimum tangible net worth. At December, 31, 2007 our tangible net worth exceeded the minimum tangible net worth required by this covenant by approximately $40 million. Should economic conditions deteriorate further and significant impairments occur as a result, we may be unable to meet this covenant. Based on our current estimates, we believe we will meet the interest coverage covenant and minimum net worth covenant through 2008 unless we are required to take significant additional impairment charges. If recording significant impairment charges and/or deferred tax valuation allowances in the future causes us not to comply with the minimum net worth covenant under the Credit Facility, the lender would have the right to terminate the Credit Facility and cause any amounts we owe under the Credit Facility to become due immediately. We monitor these and other covenant requirements closely. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in complying with all restrictions of our indebtedness or in obtaining waivers in the event of a covenant violation. The indenture covering our senior notes contains various covenants, including limitations on additional indebtedness, affiliate transactions, sale of assets and a restriction on certain payments. Payments for dividends and share repurchases are subject to a limitation, with increases in the limitation resulting from issuances of equity interests and quarterly net earnings, and decreases in the limitation resulting from quarterly net losses, with such increases and decreases being cumulative since the March 2005 issuance of the notes. As of December 31, 2007, there was $98.5 million available for the payment of dividends or share repurchases under this covenant. One unconsolidated entity in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of its loan agreement In one of our joint ventures with financing we have not met certain obligations under the loan agreement which has resulted in the joint venture being in default. The joint venture is redefining the business plan and continues to proceed in discussions with the lender. Although we continue to have discussions with both our builder partner and lender, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully re-negotiate or extend, on terms we deem acceptable, the joint venture loan. The loan is non-recourse to the Company. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, it may result in the write-off of our investment of $3.3 million. 13 We may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain financing for the development of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. We currently use our credit facility to provide some of the financing we need. The willingness of lenders to make funds available to us has been affected both by factors relating to us as a borrower, and by a decrease in the willingness of banks and other lenders to lend to homebuilders generally. If we were unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or if we were unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could suffer a material adverse effect. The credit facilities of our Financial Services segment will expire in 2008. Our Financial Services segment has the M/I Financial First Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement (the “MIF Credit Facility”) totaling $40.0 million, with an increase to $65.0 million during the period from December 15, 2007 to January 15, 2008. This segment uses the MIF Credit Facility to finance its lending activities until the loans are delivered to third party buyers. The MIF Credit Facility will expire on April 25, 2008. In the past, we have been able to obtain renewals of the MIF Credit Facility at the time of its maturity. If we are unable to renew or replace the MIF Credit Facility when it matures in April 2008, it could seriously impede the activities of our Financial Services segment. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. We currently believe that we are likely to have sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the benefit of all our net deferred tax assets (consisting primarily of valuation adjustments, reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible for tax purposes, as well as operating loss carryforwards from losses we incurred during fiscal 2007). However, some or all of these deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to take advantage of them or we enter into transactions that limit our right to use them. If it became more likely than not that deferred tax assets would expire unused, we would have to increase our valuation allowance to reflect this fact, which could materially increase our income tax expense and adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which it is recorded. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We record warranty and other reserves for homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and require the majority of our subcontractors to have, general liability, workers’ compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. We reserve for the costs to cover our self-insured retentions and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractors’ arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our warranty and construction defect claims in the future. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be 14 covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. We have responded to the recent increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by increasing our self-insured retentions. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and may become even more costly or may not be available at rates that are acceptable to us. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for homes in affected areas. Several of our markets, specifically our operations in Florida, North Carolina and Washington, D.C., are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, hurricanes and flooding. In addition, our operations in the Midwest can be impacted by severe storms, including tornados. The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry has, from time to time, experienced significant material and labor shortages in insulation, drywall, brick, cement and certain areas of carpentry and framing, as well as fluctuations in lumber prices and supplies. Any shortages of long duration in these areas could delay construction of homes, which could adversely affect our business and increase costs. We have not experienced any significant issues with availability of building materials or skilled labor. We are subject to extensive government regulations which could restrict our homebuilding or financial services business. The homebuilding industry is subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, building design and construction and similar matters. This includes local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular location. Such regulation also affects construction activities, including construction materials that must be used in certain aspects of building design, as well as sales activities and other dealings with homebuyers. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental agencies for our development activities, the granting of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, increasingly stringent requirements may be imposed on homebuilders and developers in the future. Although we cannot predict the impact on us to comply with any such requirements, such requirements could result in time-consuming and expensive compliance programs. In addition, we have been, and in the future may be, subject to periodic delays or may be precluded from developing certain projects due to building moratoriums. These moratoriums generally relate to insufficient water supplies or sewage facilities, delays in utility hookups, or inadequate road capacity within the specific market area or subdivision. These moratoriums can occur prior to, or subsequent to, commencement of our operations, without notice or recourse. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws that apply to any given project vary greatly according to the project site and the present and former uses of the property. These environmental laws may result in delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance costs (including substantial expenditures for pollution and water quality control), and prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in all cases, we have a general practice of requiring resolution of environmental issues prior to purchasing land in an effort to avoid major environmental issues in our developments. In addition to the laws and regulations that relate to our homebuilding operations, M/I Financial is subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the underwriting, servicing and sale of mortgage loans. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could impact our operations and result in additional expenses for identifying and training new personnel. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 