ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations to differ materially from historical results or those indicated by any forward-looking statements, including the risk factors identified below and other factors about which we may or may not yet be aware. Prospective and existing investors are strongly urged to carefully consider the various cautionary statements and risks set forth in this Report and our other public filings. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND RESULTS OF OPERATION COULD ALL SUFFER. Risks Associated with the Business in General Our Results of Operations May Fluctuate. Our revenue and results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, including but not limited to, those discussed below, some of which are not in our control. Because of these factors and others, we cannot rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that, in future periods, our results of operations will be significantly lower than the estimates of public market analysts, investors, or our own estimates. Such a discrepancy could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline significantly and adversely affect profitability. We Finished Fiscal Year 2009 with a Net Loss, and are Likely to Incur Losses During the 2010 Fiscal Year, and Our Future Sales Levels and Ability to Achieve Profitability are Unpredictable. For the one year period ending December 31, 2009, we experienced a net loss before income taxes of approximately $4,000,000. We may experience a net operating loss for fiscal year 2010. Our operating history is limited, our business has changed rapidly over the past four years, and we are competing in an emerging technology industry. We cannot be assured that profitability will be achieved, or if it is achieved that it will continue, in upcoming quarters or years, nor can we be assured that we will be able to improve operating margins or increase revenues, or adequately control our operating expenses. 13 Table of Contents Generally, the global economic slowdown, combined with unprecedented currency volatility, resulted in a sharp pull back in global telecommunications infrastructure spending in the second half of 2008 and throughout 2009. During this period of 2008 and 2009, NWB’s net sales and profitability were negatively impacted by these factors primarily as a result of reduced demand for the telecommunications equipment sold and distributed by the Company’s NWB Networks division. We May Need Additional Near-Term Capital. We may need additional capital to continue to pursue our current business model, and there can be no assurance that adequate capital will be available to us on acceptable terms as needed. If we are not able to secure adequate capital, we may have to delay the implementation of our business plan, and potentially discontinue non-profitable business operations. Our ability to obtain additional financing is subject to a number of factors, including general market conditions, our operating performance, our financial condition, and investor acceptance of our business plan. The economic downturn and the current challenges facing the financial markets may make it difficult for us to raise capital, or to raise capital on terms acceptable to the Company. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary financing, or if financing is available that the terms will be favorable to existing stockholders or acceptable to our Board. If future capital investment is made available, existing shareholders may experience dilution of their stock ownership positions in order for us to secure that additional investment. We Face Changing Market Conditions for Products and Services. The market for VoIP service is still in the relatively early stages of development and market acceptance, and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and strong customer demand for new products, applications, and services. As is typical of a new and rapidly evolving industry, the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced IP telephony products and services are highly uncertain. We cannot be sure that the delivery of telephone and other communications services over IP networks rather than over traditional telephone networks will expand. We cannot be sure that packet-based voice networks will become widespread or that connections between packet networks and telephone networks will become commonplace. The inability to deliver traffic over the Internet with significant cost advantages could slow or stop the growth of VoIP technology. The adaptation process of connecting packet networks and telephone networks can be time consuming and costly. In addition, limitations of VoIP technology, such as the inability to make a call during a power outage and difficulty in accessing 911 services, could adversely affect the market for VoIP services. If this market does not develop, or develops more slowly than we expect, we may not be able to sell our products or offer our services in sufficient volume to meet our financial goals. If the regulatory environment in the United States becomes more difficult for VoIP providers it could also significantly impact our business. International Governmental Regulation and Legal Uncertainties Could Limit Our Ability to Provide Current Services or Could Increase Our Costs, or Subject Us to Legal Liability. Regulatory treatment of Internet telephony outside the United States varies from country to country. In many countries in which we purchase termination services, the status of the laws or contracts that may relate to our services, including their interpretation and enforcement, is unclear or evolving. We cannot be certain that our customers, local service providers, or other affiliates are currently in compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in their respective countries, or that they or we will be able to comply with existing or future requirements. We provide our services in reliance on local service providers that may be subject to telecommunications regulations in their home countries. In some of those countries, licensed telephony carriers, as well as government regulators and law enforcement authorities may question the legal authority of our local service providers and/or our legal authority. Because of our relationships with resellers, some countries or local service providers may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications carrier in that country. In such case, our failure to do so could subject us to regulatory action such as fines or penalties, including asset forfeitures. In addition, some countries are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies. If foreign governments or other bodies begin to impose related restrictions on VoIP or our other services or otherwise enforce laws or regulations against us, our affiliates, or our vendors, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, deregulation of the communications markets in developing foreign countries may not continue, and incumbent providers, trade unions, and others may resist legislation directed toward deregulation and may resist allowing us to interconnect to their network switches. Governments and regulations may change, resulting in reduced availability of licenses and/or cancellations or suspensions of licenses, confiscation of equipment, and/or rate increases; the instability of the regulations applicable to our businesses and their interpretation and enforcement in these markets could materially and adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Domestic Regulatory Changes May Subject Us to Additional Fees, Taxes, or Tariffs, or Service Restrictions. We are not licensed to offer traditional telecommunications services in any U.S. state and we have not filed tariffs for any service at the FCC or at any state regulatory commission. While the FCC has traditionally maintained an informal policy that information service providers, including VoIP providers, are not telecommunications carriers for regulatory purposes, various entities have challenged this idea before the FCC and at various state government agencies. Local exchange carriers are lobbying the FCC and the states to regulate VoIP on the same basis as traditional telephone services. Aspects of our operations are, and may become, subject to state or federal regulations governing licensing, universal service funding, access charges, advertising, disclosure of confidential communications or other information, excise taxes, U.S. embargos, and other reporting or compliance requirements. Dependence on Vendors Our distribution of TELES products, through our exclusive distributorship agreement with TELES for North America, the Caribbean, and parts of Central America, with rights to sell elsewhere, forms a significant part of our business, and the majority of telecommunications equipment that we sell is manufactured by TELES. In the event that TELES would be unable or unwilling to supply telecommunications equipment to the Company, we would be materially impacted. Dependence on Customers Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue for the NWB Networks division has been derived from large purchases by a small number of network equipment providers, systems integrators, and distributors. We do not enter into long-term sales agreements in which the customer is obligated to purchase a set quantity of product. Based on our experience, we expect that our customer base may change from period to period. If we lose a large customer and fail to add new customers, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Two customers accounted for more than 10% of NWB Networks revenues during the year ending December 31, 2009 and our top ten customers accounted for the majority of the business conducted by the division. Although we continue to do business with these clients, and have no reason to believe we will cease doing business with any of them in the foreseeable future, the loss of any large client could adversely impact our results of operations if the revenue stream were not replaced by other sales. The NWB Telecom division derives a significant amount of revenue from a relatively small number of clients. If we were to lose one or more of these customers, and the business were not replaced, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Three customers accounted for 10% or more of NWB Telecom revenues during the year ending December 31, 2009, with one accounting for more than 10% of total Company revenues, and our top ten customers accounted for a firm majority of the division’s business. Although we to continue to do business with these clients, and have no reason to believe we will cease doing business with any of them in the foreseeable future, the loss of any large client could adversely impact our results of operations if the revenue stream were not replaced by other sales. Changes in Governmental Regulations Could Slow the Growth of the VoIP Market. In the United States, changes in governmental regulation are being considered that may negatively impact the VoIP telephony market. The Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) is examining the enactment of new regulations governing Internet telephony and the question of whether certain forms of telephone services over the Internet should be subject to the same FCC regulations as telecommunications services. Phone companies in the U.S. and abroad are seeking the adoption of regulations to require VoIP providers or users to pay a charge to local service providers. The cost of providing Internet phone service could increase as a result of these actions or more aggressive regulation or taxation of VoIP services by the FCC or foreign governments, which could result in slower growth and decreased profitability for the industry and potentially for the Company. We May Be Unable to Manage Our Growth and Multiple Business Lines Effectively. Due to both the difficulties faced throughout much of 2008 and 2009, as well as opportunities that have arisen, we have enacted several changes in the daily operations of the Company as well as in its strategic orientation. The asset purchase agreement between Aeropointe and the Company as well as the introduction of packaging long-distance and international telephony services for a retail market represent some of the company’s efforts to adapt to a novel situation. At present, the company must currently focus on multiple business lines simultaneously. We are a young company with a limited operating history, and our management team regularly faces new challenges. None of our senior executives has operated a public reporting company before. To continue to compete in the highly competitive and rapidly developing IP communications industry we will be forced to quickly adapt to changing market conditions in multiple areas, such as shifts in capital needs, in fundamental communications technologies, and in product lines and supply sources, and there can be no assurance management can meet these challenges. 15 Table of Contents Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Joint Ventures, or Private Equity Transactions Entail Risks and May Disrupt our Business, Dilute Stockholder Value or Distract Management Attention. We have grown in part through the acquisition of companies, products, or technologies. We expect to continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or that they will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. If we make any further acquisitions, we may issue stock that would dilute our existing shareholders’ percentage of ownership, and we may incur substantial debt, and/or assume contingent or unknown liabilities. In the event of any equity-based financing transaction, we will need to secure additional capital. Such equity may have rights and preferences superior to the Company’s outstanding Common Stock, and the issuance of such equity by the Company will dilute the ownership percentage of the Company’s existing shareholders. We Rely Upon Key Personnel, and Must Attract and Retain Additional Qualified Personnel. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team, including our Chairman, M. David Kamrat; our President, and Chief Executive Officer, R. Steven Bell; our Chief Operations Officer, Shawn Lane; and our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, and Treasurer, Shehryar Wahid. If these or other key personnel do not continue to be active in management, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to retain our senior executives or other personnel necessary for the development of our business. In addition, at present there is a shortage of qualified management, sales, and technical personnel in our industry and we are in direct recruiting competition for these applicants with larger businesses that are able in some cases to offer more competitive compensation. We plan to use stock warrants and other forms of equity compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, to encourage employee retention, and to provide competitive compensation. The changing regulatory landscape could make it more difficult and expensive for us to grant stock benefits to employees in the future. In addition, the use of alternative equity incentives may increase our compensation expense and reduce our earnings, and may dilute other shareholders. We Extend Credit to Customers for Product Purchases, Creating Bad Debt Risk. A substantial portion of our receivables results from credit extended to customers for purchases of our products and services. We cannot be sure that we will be able to collect all of these accounts receivable. Although we have internal credit risk policies to identify companies with poor credit histories, we may not effectively manage these policies and may provide services to companies that refuse or are unable to pay. The risk is even greater in foreign countries, where the legal and collection systems available may not be adequate for us to enforce the payment provisions of our contracts. Our cash reserves will be reduced and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to collect amounts from our customers. Such future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Litigation May Harm Our Operating Results or Financial Condition. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, consumptive of management’s time and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and expensive to defend or pursue. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Our International Operations Subject Us to Additional Risks and Increased Costs. We intend to continue to pursue international opportunities, both in VoIP service and VoIP equipment sales. International operations are subject to a number of risks and barriers, including: · unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, telecommunications standards, and regulatory and contract enforcement and interpretation; · tariffs and other trade barriers, exchange controls, or other currency restrictions; · difficulty in collecting receivables and recovering equipment; · difficulty in adapting to changes in foreign technological environments; · the need to customize marketing and product features to meet foreign requirements; · inadequate protection of intellectual property in countries outside the United States; and · foreign political and economic instability, particularly in emerging markets where VoIP growth is robust. We may not be able to overcome some of these barriers and may incur significant costs in addressing others. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our prices for TELES products are denominated in Euros, but otherwise our sales prices are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars. Our revenues are therefore affected by fluctuations in the Euro/Dollar exchange rate. To the extent that the Dollar loses value relative to the Euro, our pricing strength and gross margins will be negatively affected: the currency of most of our customers and our fixed costs (Dollars) would become less valuable relative to the currency of our primary equipment vendor, TELES (Euros). In addition, some of our expenses are denominated in Mexican Pesos. To the extent that the Dollar loses value relative to the Peso, our margins could be negatively affected. We Face State Tax Uncertainties. Various states have sought to require the collection of state and local sales taxes on products shipped to the taxing jurisdiction’s residents. We cannot predict the level of contact, including electronic commerce, shipping, and Internet or IP communications activity that might give rise to future or past tax collection obligations based on existing law. Many states aggressively pursue out-of-state businesses, and legislation that would expand the ability of states to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state businesses has been introduced in Congress on many occasions. A change in the law could require us to collect sales taxes or similar taxes on sales in states in which we have no presence and could potentially subject us to a liability for prior year sales, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our Business Could be Disrupted by Systems Failure. Our operations are dependent on the reliability of information, telecommunication, and other systems that are used for sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing, customer service, and general accounting functions. Interruption of our information systems, collocation networks, Internet, or telecommunication systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. We Face Increased Expenses as a Result of Being a Public Company. The costs of being a public company have increased significantly since the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). We expect that our general and administrative expenses, in particular legal, accounting, and IT systems expenses, will increase as a result of our efforts to comply with applicable securities laws, in particular with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This process will divert internal resources, and may force us to implement new internal controls and reevaluate our financial reporting, or hire additional personnel, in order for us to maintain our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to effectively implement these changes, it could harm our operations and financial results, and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. We May Undertake New Business Ventures and Enter into New Lines of Business. Management is constantly evaluating new opportunities in the VoIP service and equipment industry, including strategic partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions, or combinations of these entities. Further, there can be no assurances that such opportunities, particularly those involving acquisitions, will be successful. The Company may finance these new business opportunities through a combination of equity and/or debt. If the Company determines to finance these opportunities by issuing additional equity, then such equity may have rights and preferences superior to the Company’s outstanding Common Stock, and the issuance of such equity will dilute the ownership percentage of the Company’s existing shareholders. If the Company determines to finance these opportunities by incurring debt, then such debt may not be available to the Company on favorable terms, if at all. As of the date of the filing of this Report, we consider all such opportunities to be in the evaluation stage, and their potential effect upon our gross and net profits too speculative to quantify. Risks Most Specific to our NWB Networks Division (IP Communications Equipment Resale). The following are certain risks we consider most important to the NWB Networks division of our business, but these risks should be read in connection with all the other risks described herein (including those specific to other divisions). Rapid Technological Change and Inventory Obsolescence. The VoIP telecommunication industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent introductions of new or enhanced products. To timely meet demand and obtain better purchase pricing, we may be required to carry significant inventory levels of certain products, which subject us to increased risk of inventory obsolescence. We participate in first-to-market and end-of-life purchase opportunities, both of which carry the risk of inventory obsolescence. Special purchase products are sometimes acquired without return privileges, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to such products if the related purchase contract is not completed. In addition, as illustrated below in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations,” we currently sell used or refurbished products, as well as new products. Manufacturers with large market share, particularly Cisco, may release new generations of products that make used or refurbished products obsolete or unattractive, and Cisco and other manufacturers may release new generations or types of products that make the new products we hold in inventory or otherwise sell or distribute obsolete or unattractive. The risk of rapid technological change is tied to the risk of customer and vendor concentrations: If, as a result of technological or other change, the demands of our key customers or the supplies of our key vendors no longer correspond, our revenues may suffer, or we could be forced to seek new customers, new suppliers or both. 18 Table of Contents Concentrated Vendor/Product Risk. Since the sale of our IP Gear, Ltd. subsidiary and entry into an exclusive distribution agreement with TELES, we have been relying to an increasing degree upon TELES for supply of the VoIP equipment that we distribute and sell. In fact, nearly all of our profitable equipment sales since the sale of our IP Gear, Ltd. subsidiary have been of TELES equipment. If TELES is unable to continue to supply high-demand equipment at attractive prices, our revenues, and/or gross profits will decline. In addition, we are subject to a risk of supply interruption if TELES’s business suffers or if our relationship with TELES suffers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of the TELES iGate and vGate product lines, and we expect that these products will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for these products, such as competition, technological change or a slower than anticipated rate of development or deployment of new products, features, and technologies could cause a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. No other vendor aside from TELES accounts for more than 10% of NWB Networks’ costs paid to vendors. Reliance on Market Purchase and Sale Opportunities. We acquire a significant portion of our non-TELES inventory on secondary markets as used or refurbished product, and we rely upon purchasing opportunities on the open market. We do not currently rely upon purchases direct from manufacturers, nor do we purchase primarily from “top tier” distributors of new products (top tier meaning those distributors who purchase directly from major manufacturers such as Cisco). We do not have long-term supply or sale contracts for inventory, and we do not participate in large buying opportunities, which may offer larger discounts. Termination, interruption, or contraction of our relationships with our vendors, or unavailability on the open market of our core products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Historical Dependence on a Small Number of Customers (Concentrated Customer Risk), the Loss of, or Reduction in, Purchases by any of which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Revenue. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has been derived from large purchases by a small number of network equipment providers, systems integrators, and distributors. We do not enter into long-term sales agreements in which the customer is obligated to purchase a set quantity of our products. Based on our experience, we expect that our customer base may change from period to period. If we lose a large customer and fail to add new customers there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Two customers represented more than 10% of NWB Networks’ revenues during the year ending December 31, 2009, and our top ten customers accounted for the majority of our business in the division. Although we continue to do business with these clients, and have no reason to believe we will cease doing business with any of them in the foreseeable future, the loss of any large client could adversely impact our results of operations if the revenue stream were not replaced by other sales. The continuing weakness in credit markets has affected the world economy and has severely restricted access to capital, and has materially impacted the Company’s ability to sell telecommunications hardware. Our customers are, and may continue to be, less willing and able to make capital investments than in the past. With carrier and service-provider customers, this has translated into the cancellation and delay of many projects, including major infrastructure projects, of which our switching and gateway products are often a major component. Small business and enterprise customers could benefit from the cost savings generated by the installation of TELES equipment. Even so, many are reluctant to make the investments necessary, or unable to access the credit needed, to move such projects forward. To overcome such reluctance, we have increased our marketing efforts and worked diligently with our distributors and resellers; encouraging them to provide trade credit, and equipment trials to demonstrate the savings features of our products. Additionally, we have continued to develop our channel sales initiatives to broaden our distribution, create greater market awareness of our offerings, and access new markets. Chief among these markets are the small business space and the government space. These efforts are highly dependent on the willingness and ability of our distributors and resellers to invest in the technical and marketing skills and methods needed to bring new products to their product lines. Such investment has been noticeably reduced on their part, and that reduction presents an additional risk to NWB going forward. We continue to see interest in our products and our channel sales program, but the velocity of adoption has been slower than expected. The possibility that the velocity of program adoption will continue to lag behind projections represents another risk to the Company. 19 Table of Contents Risks Most Specific to Our NWB Telecom Division (Wholesale VoIP Service Provider). The following are certain risks we consider most important to the NWB Telecom division of our business, but these risks should be read in connection with all the other risks described herein (including those specific to other divisions). Concentrated Customer Risk. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of clients. If we were to lose one or more of these customers, and the business were not replaced, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Each of three customers accounted for 10% or more of NWB Telecom revenues during the year ending December 31, 2009, with one customer generating more than 10% of revenues for the Company as a whole, and our top ten customers accounted for a firm majority of NWB Telecom revenues during the year ending December 31, 2009. Although we continue to do business with these clients, and have no reason to believe we will cease doing business with any of them in the foreseeable future, the loss of any large client could adversely impact our results of operations if the revenue stream were not replaced by other sales. Potential for Key Supplier Interruptions. We had two vendors from whom we purchased over 10% of NWB Telecom traffic for resale, as measured by cost. Furthermore, we do not rely upon or maintain any long term supply or termination service contracts, and all of our vendor agreements are terminable at will by either party without notice. In addition, our suppliers rely upon short term contracts or arrangements with other local service providers, including tier 1 service providers, to supply termination routes; these contracts or arrangements may also be terminated upon short notice. Therefore, our VoIP service business is subject to supply disruptions that are not within our control and that could have a material adverse effect upon the NWB Telecom division’s financial results. In fact, our NWB Telecom division has experienced loss or interruption of key suppliers, including suppliers who each accounted for over 10% of NWB Telecom revenue during 2009, and the loss or interruption substantially negatively impacted NWB Telecom’s revenue and gross profit. In addition, critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet, including security, cost, ease of use and access, intellectual property ownership, and other legal liability issues, remain unresolved and could materially and adversely affect both the growth of Internet usage generally and our business in particular. Finally, we will not be able to increase our VoIP service traffic if Internet infrastructure does not continue to expand to more locations worldwide, particularly into emerging markets and developing nations. The risk of negative impact on our gross profit due to supply interruptions is increased by our recent reliance on a small number of vendors offering relatively high-margin VoIP termination services in foreign countries. 20 Table of Contents We Rely on Third-Party Providers of Phone and Data Lines and Other Telecommunications Services and Local Communications Service Providers. Our business model depends on the availability of the Internet and traditional telephone networks to transmit voice and fax calls. Third parties maintain and own these networks, other components that comprise the Internet, and business relationships that allow telephone calls to be terminated over the public switched telephone network. Some of these third parties are telephone companies. They may increase their charges for using these lines at any time and thereby increase our expenses. They may also fail to maintain their lines properly, fail to maintain the ability to terminate calls, or otherwise disrupt our ability to provide service to our customers. Any such failure that leads to a material disruption of our ability to complete calls or provide other services could discourage our customers from using our network. We maintain relationships with local communications service providers in foreign countries, some of whom own the equipment that translates calls from traditional voice networks to the Internet, and vice versa. We rely upon these third parties both to provide lines over which we complete calls and to increase their capacity, when necessary, as the volume of our traffic increases. In turn, many of these parties rely upon their relationships with local phone companies and the use of local PSTN to complete calls at the termination location. There is a risk that these third parties may be slow, or may fail, to provide lines, which would affect our ability to complete calls to certain destinations. Because we rely upon entering into relationships with local service providers to expand into additional countries, we may not be able to increase the number of countries to which we provide service. Finally, any technical difficulties that these providers suffer, or difficulties in their relationships with companies that manage the public switched telephone network, could affect our ability to transmit calls to the countries that those providers help serve, significantly reducing our revenue and cash flows, as well as hurting our reputation. Single Points of Failure on Our Network, or Computer Vandalism, May Make our Business Vulnerable. We currently operate two principal network operations centers, one in Eugene, Oregon, and one in Guanajuato, Mexico. In some cases, we have designed redundant systems, provided for excess capacity, and taken other precautions against platform and network failures, as well as facility failures relating to power, air conditioning, destruction, or theft. Nonetheless, some of our infrastructure and functionality, including that associated with certain components of our wholesale business, such as switching or routing equipment, operate as a single point of failure, meaning failures of the type described may prohibit us from offering services. If the overall performance of the Internet is seriously downgraded by website attacks, failure of service attacks, or other acts of computer vandalism or virus infection, our ability to deliver our communication services over the Internet could be adversely impacted, which could cause us to have to increase the amount of traffic we must carry over alternative networks, including the more costly public switched telephone network. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not cover losses we could incur because of any such disruption of the Internet. 21 Table of Contents Risks Attendant to Entering the Prepaid Calling Card Business. We may not be able to obtain sufficient or cost-effective termination capacity to particular destinations. Most of our telecommunications traffic is terminated through third-party providers. In order to support our minutes-of-use demands and geographic expansion, we may need to obtain additional termination capacity or destinations. We may not be able to obtain sufficient termination capacity from high-quality carriers to particular destinations or may have to pay significant amounts to obtain such capacity. This could result in our not being able to support our minutes-of-use demands or in a higher cost-per-minute to particular destinations, which could adversely affect our revenues and margins. The termination of our carrier agreements with foreign partners or our inability to enter into carrier agreements in the future could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our revenues and profits. We rely upon our carrier agreements with foreign partners in order to provide our telecommunications services to our customers. These carrier agreements are for finite terms and, therefore, there can be no guarantee that these agreements will be renewed at all or on favorable terms to us. Our ability to compete would be adversely affected if our carrier agreements were to be terminated, our suppliers capacity were to be diminished, or we were unable to enter into carrier agreements in the future to provide our telecommunications services to our customers, which could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. Our customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, could experience financial difficulties, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability if we experience difficulties in collecting our receivables. As a provider of international long distance services, we depend upon sales of transmission and termination of traffic to other long distance providers and the collection of receivables from these customers. The wholesale market continues to feature many smaller, less financially stable companies. If continued weakness in the telecommunications industry reduces our ability to collect our accounts receivable from our major customers, particularly our wholesale carrier customers, this may substantially affect our operations. Moreover, the after-effects of the collapse of the mortgage-backed credit markets may affect our customers’ access to liquidity and impair our ability to collect on receivables. Our revenues could suffer if we, or our distributors and sales representatives fail to effectively market and distribute our prepaid calling card services. We currently rely on our distributors and representatives for marketing and distribution of our prepaid calling card services. In foreign countries, we are dependent upon our distributors and independent sales representatives, many of whom also sell services or products of other companies. As a result, we cannot control whether these foreign distributors and sales representatives will devote sufficient efforts to selling our services. In addition, we may not succeed in finding capable retailers and sales representatives in new markets that we may enter. If our distributors or sales representatives fail to effectively market or distribute our prepaid calling card services, our ability to generate revenues and grow our customer base could be substantially impaired Concentrated Vendor and Customer Risk NWB Retail is the Company’s newest division, beginning operations in the fourth quarter of 2009. In that quarter, the division was primarily dependent on a single vendor, while three customers each accounting for more than 10% of revenue comprised all of our sales. The Company has since taken over much of the operations for which the vendor was responsible and expects to diversify NWB Retail’s customer base as the division establishes itself. Regulation of Telecom in the United States Telecommunications services are subject to government regulation at both the federal and state levels in the United States. Any violations of the regulations may subject us to enforcement actions, including interest and penalties. The FCC has jurisdiction over all telecommunications common carriers to the extent they provide interstate or international communications services. Each state regulatory commission has jurisdiction over the same carriers with respect to their provision of local and intrastate communications services. Local governments often indirectly regulate aspects of our communications business by imposing zoning requirements, taxes, permit or right-of-way procedures or franchise fees. Significant changes to the applicable laws or regulations imposed by any of these regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Risks Associated with the Company’s Stock. Relative Illiquidity of Stock; Share Price Fluctuations. There is relatively limited trading of our stock in the public markets, and this imposes significant practical limitations on any shareholder’s ability to achieve liquidity at any particular quoted price. Efforts to sell significant amounts of our stock on the open market may precipitate significant declines in the prices quoted by market makers. The market price for our ordinary shares and the prices of shares of other technology companies have been volatile. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly. It is possible that we will fail to achieve revenue or profit expectations in the future. The following factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause significant fluctuations in the market price of our shares: · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings or those of our competitors; · shortfalls in our operating results compared to levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us, our competitors, or IP telephony, including technological innovations; · the introduction of new products, changes in product lines, or changes in business models; and · market conditions in the industry, and in the telecommunications and technology securities markets. Our common shares are sporadically and thinly-traded on the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our Common Stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors, and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and the fact that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow a company with an operating history as limited and burdened with past losses as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer, which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot provide any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. Substantial Shareholders May Sell All or a Substantial Portion of the Shares They Own or Acquire at any Time in the Future, which Could Cause the Market Price of our Common Stock to Decline. The sale, or the possibility of a sale, by any substantial holder of our Common Stock could cause the market price of our stock to decline. The sale of a substantial number of shares or the possibility of such a sale also could make it more difficult for us to sell new Common Stock or other new equity securities in the future at a time and at a price best for the Company. 23 Table of Contents We Do Not Anticipate Declaring any Cash Dividends on Our Ordinary Shares. We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Voting Control by Principal Stockholders. As of March 6, 2009, M. David Kamrat and Noah Kamrat, father and son, together with their spouses (collectively, the “Kamrat Family”), beneficially control approximately 35.2% of our Common Stock, largely due to their prior ownership of Qualmax common stock; P&S Spirit, an entity controlled by Dr. Selvin Passen and Jacob Schorr, Ph.D., together with Dr. Selvin Passen separately, also beneficially controls approximately 29.6% of our Common Stock. Therefore, the members of Kamrat Family, P&S Spirit, and Dr. Passen collectively are able, indirectly as a result of their influence on matters requiring Company shareholder vote, to significantly influence the vote on matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election of directors. For more information regarding stock ownership of principal shareholders see Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.” As a result, our directors and executive officers beneficially own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock. These holders, if they were to act together, would likely be able to direct the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders including the election of new directors and other corporate actions. These decisions may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. 24 Table of Contents 