Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. 12 Table of Contents Failure to Manage Future Growth Could Adversely Impact Our Business Due to the Strain on Our Management, Financial and Other Resources If our business expands in the future, the additional growth will place burdens on management to manage such growth while maintaining profitability. Our ability to compete effectively and manage future growth depends on our ability to: • recruit, train and manage our work force, particularly in the areas of corporate management, accounting, research and development and operations, • manage production and inventory levels to meet product demand, • manage and improve production quality, • expand both the range of customers and the geographic scope of our customer base, and • improve financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to Adequately Ramp-Up Production Capacity to Meet Demand Could Adversely Impact Our Business Due to Strain on Financial Resources. Any delays in an untried supply chain, new production chains, and other delays common to the launch of a new product line could also adversely impact the success of the products, as well as current relationships with major accounts. Our Business May Suffer If Our Competitive Strategy is Not Successful Our continued success depends on our ability to compete in an industry that is highly competitive. This competition may increase as new competitors enter the market. Several of our competitors may have longer operating histories and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Additionally, our competitors may introduce new products or enhancements to products that could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Under our current competitive strategy, we endeavor to remain competitive by: • increasing our market share, • expanding our market through the introduction of new products which require periodic replacement, and • improving operating efficiencies. Although our executive management team continues to review and monitor our strategic plans, we have no assurance that we will be able to follow our current strategy or that this strategy will be successful. Our Business May Suffer if Our Strategy to Increase the Size and Customer Base of the Air Filtration Market is Unsuccessful We are developing new products as part of our strategy to increase the size and customer base of the air filtration market. We have no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We have no guarantee that any new products we develop will gain acceptance in the marketplace, or that these products will be successful. Additionally, we have no assurance we will be able to recoup the expenditures associated with the development of these products. To succeed in this area we must: • increase public awareness of the issues surrounding indoor air quality, • adequately address the unknown requirements of the potential customer base, • develop new products that are competitive in terms of price, performance and quality, and • avoid significant increases in current expenditure levels in development, marketing and consumer education. We May Experience Critical Equipment Failure Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business If we experience extended periods of downtime due to the malfunction or failure of our automated production equipment, our business, financial condition and operations may suffer. We design and manufacture much of the automated production equipment used in our facilities. We also use other technologically advanced equipment for 13 Table of Contents which manufacturers may have limited production capability or service experience. If we are unable to quickly repair our equipment or quickly obtain new equipment or parts from outside manufacturers, we could experience extended periods of downtime in the event of malfunction or equipment failure. Our Plan to Centralize Overhead Functions May Not Produce the Anticipated Benefits to Our Operating Results We are currently completing the implementation of plans to centralize overhead functions and eliminate duplication of efforts between our subsidiaries in the following areas: • purchasing, • production planning, • shipping coordination, • marketing, • accounting, • personnel management, • risk management, and • benefit plan administration. We have no assurance that cutting overhead in this fashion will have the anticipated benefits to our operating results. Additionally, we have no assurance that these reorganizations will not significantly disrupt the operations of the affected subsidiaries. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Retain and Attract Key Personnel Our success and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to retain our executives and key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends on our ability to attract highly qualified engineering, manufacturing, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations. Competition for such personnel, particularly qualified engineers, is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our failure to attract or retain such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Current Distribution Channels May be Unavailable if Our Manufacturers’ Representatives Decide to Work Primarily With One of Our Competitors We provide our manufacturers’ representatives with the ability to offer a full product line of air filtration products to existing and new customers. Some of our competitors offer similar arrangements. We do not have exclusive relationships with all of our representatives. Consequently, if our representatives decide to work primarily with one of our competitors, our current distribution channels, and hence, our sales, could be significantly reduced. Management Controls a Significant Percentage of Our Stock As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers beneficially held approximately 34.52% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, such shareholders effectively control or significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters include the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may otherwise be advantageous to the non-affiliated shareholders. We May be Required to Issue Stock in the Future That Will Dilute the Value of Our Existing Stock We have granted options to purchase a total of 3,267,000 shares of common stock to various parties with exercise prices ranging from $1.74 to $11.72 per share. The majority of these options are currently exercisable. Additionally, if the option holders exercise their options, the interests of current shareholders may be diluted. Our Shareholders May Not Realize Certain Opportunities Because of Our Charter Provisions and North Carolina Law Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that are designed to provide our Board of Directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control in 14 Table of Contents our business. Additionally, we are subject to the Control Shares Acquisition Act of the State of North Carolina. This act provides that any person who acquires “control shares” of a publicly held North Carolina corporation will not have voting rights with respect to the acquired shares unless a majority of the disinterested shareholders of the corporation vote to grant such rights. This could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or other advantages that large accumulations of stock would typically provide. Our Business Can be Significantly Affected by Environmental Laws The constantly changing body of environmental laws and regulations may significantly influence our business and products. These laws and regulations require that various environmental standards be met and impose liability for the failure to comply with such standards. While we endeavor at each of our facilities to assure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and are currently not aware of any ongoing issues of this nature, we cannot be certain that our operations or activities, or historical operations by others at our locations, will not result in civil or criminal enforcement actions or private actions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We have, in the past, and may, in the future, purchase or lease properties with unresolved potential violations of federal or state environmental regulations. In these transactions, we have been successful in obtaining sufficient indemnification and mitigating the impact of the issues without recognizing significant expenses associated with litigation and cleanup. However, purchasing or leasing these properties requires us to weigh the cost of resolving these issues and the likelihood of litigation against the potential economic and business benefits of the transaction. If we fail to correctly identify, resolve and obtain indemnification against these risks, they could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. Fire disruptions may adversely affect our business Our raw materials and manufacturing process involve a greater than average risk of fire loss or disruption. We have recently experienced two fires. In April 2006, a manufacturing facility in Texas was destroyed by fire. In July 2007, a manufacturing facility in Bartow, Florida was destroyed by fire. To date we have been able to mitigate the effects of fires and floods by transferring manufacturing, warehousing and shipping to other facilities. Our management has advised us that to date we have been insured against the losses caused by such fires. Although we intend to increase security and increase fire protection equipment at our facilities, another major fire could occur and materially affect our operations. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain business interruption, loss of income and physical damage insurance in sufficient amounts to fully recoup losses caused by fire or other natural disasters. It is an event of default under our credit facility with Bank of America if we are not fully insured for any loss, theft, damage or destruction to our assets, subject to agreeable insurance deductibles, that exceeds $200. Covenants in our credit facilities could restrict our ability to borrow additional funds, which could impair the improvement and expansion of our operations Certain covenants in our credit facility with Bank of America restrict the types and amounts of additional indebtedness that we may incur. In addition, the credit facility contains specific financial covenants. These restrictions could inhibit our ability to improve and expand our operations. Our credit facility with Bank of America matures in October 2009. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain covenant compliance, negotiate extensions to this credit facility or find a replacement credit facility on comparable terms. We pledged substantially all of our assets as security for the Bank of America credit facility. A significant amount of our leased physical facilities are owned by Mr. Amerson. We are the lessee under a series of six (6) real estate operating leases for approximately 1,006,000 square feet of warehousing, shipping and manufacturing facilities, expiring in 2025, 2026 or 2027 with Wal-Pat II, LLC (“Wal-Pat”), an entity owned by Robert R. Amerson. Mr. Amerson is our CEO and Chairman of our Board of Directors and beneficially owns approximately 29.6% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2007. Mr. Amerson acquired Mr. Clark’s interest in Wal-Pat as part of the Settlement and Mutual Release with Mr. Clark. Our aggregate monthly base lease payment obligation to Wal-Pat is approximately $221. Our total remaining aggregate obligation under the Wal-Pat operating leases is approximately $50,639. These amounts exclude any obligations for payment of real estate taxes and repairs and maintenance, which are our responsibility as the lessee. 15 Table of Contents In September 2007, we entered into a Master Lease Modification Agreement with Wal-Pat, which requires Wal-Pat to notify us at least thirty (30) days in advance of any future proposed sale of any of the premises or a proposed sale of a majority of the equity interests in Wal-Pat. In such event, we have the right to accept, renegotiate or terminate the leases. We were granted a future right of first refusal in connection with a sale of any of the leased Wal-Pat facilities. In the event of a future sale of Flanders, which includes a merger, sale of substantially all of our assets or acquisition of greater than 50% of our shares, by a party other than Mr. Amerson, then Flanders is granted the right to terminate or renegotiate the terms of the Wal-Pat leases. We also have a fair market value purchase option for the facilities we lease from Wal-Pat. A default by us under the terms of any of these leases or a default by Wal-Pat, or Mr. Amerson, as guarantor on their obligations to BB&T, the financial institution which holds mortgages and deeds of trust on these properties, could adversely affect our leasehold interests in these properties. Mr. Amerson has pledged 5,128,103 of our common shares as security to BB&T in order to facilitate the financings to Wal-Pat, other personal loans, and the acquisition of Mr. Clark’s shares. Because of the foregoing factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff comment letter dated December 12, 2007. 16 Table of Contents 