Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Failure to Manage Future Growth Could Adversely Impact Our Business Due to the Strain on Our Management, Financial and Other Resources If our business expands in the future, the additional growth will place burdens on management to manage such growth while maintaining profitability. Our ability to compete effectively and manage future growth depends on our ability to: • recruit, train and manage our work force, particularly in the areas of corporate management, accounting, research and development and operations, • manage production and inventory levels to meet product demand, • manage and improve production quality, • expand both the range of customers and the geographic scope of our customer base, and • improve financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to Adequately Ramp-Up Production Capacity to Meet Demand Could Adversely Impact Our Business Due to Strain on Financial Resources. Any delays in an untried supply chain, new production chains, and other delays common to the launch of a new product line could also adversely impact the success of the products, as well as current relationships with major accounts. 11 Table of Contents Our Business May Suffer If Our Competitive Strategy is Not Successful Our continued success depends on our ability to compete in an industry that is highly competitive. This competition may increase as new competitors enter the market. Several of our competitors may have longer operating histories and greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Additionally, our competitors may introduce new products or enhancements to products that could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. Under our current competitive strategy, we endeavor to remain competitive by: • increasing our market share, • expanding our market through the introduction of new products which require periodic replacement, and • improving operating efficiencies. Although our executive management team continues to review and monitor our strategic plans, we have no assurance that we will be able to follow our current strategy or that this strategy will be successful. Our Business May Suffer if Our Strategy to Increase the Size and Customer Base of the Air Filtration Market is Unsuccessful We are developing new products as part of our strategy to increase the size and customer base of the air filtration market. We have no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We have no guarantee that any new products we develop will gain acceptance in the marketplace, or that these products will be successful. Additionally, we have no assurance we will be able to recoup the expenditures associated with the development of these products. To succeed in this area we must: • increase public awareness of the issues surrounding indoor air quality, • adequately address the unknown requirements of the potential customer base, • develop new products that are competitive in terms of price, performance and quality, and • avoid significant increases in current expenditure levels in development, marketing and consumer education. We May Experience Critical Equipment Failure Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business If we experience extended periods of downtime due to the malfunction or failure of our automated production equipment, our business, financial condition and operations may suffer. We design and manufacture much of the automated production equipment used in our facilities. We also use other technologically advanced equipment for which manufacturers may have limited production capability or service experience. If we are unable to quickly repair our equipment or quickly obtain new equipment or parts from outside manufacturers, we could experience extended periods of downtime in the event of malfunction or equipment failure. Our Plan to Centralize Overhead Functions May Not Produce the Anticipated Benefits to Our Operating Results We are currently completing the implementation of plans to centralize overhead functions and eliminate duplication of efforts between our subsidiaries in the following areas: • purchasing, • production planning, • shipping coordination, • marketing, • accounting, • personnel management, • risk management, and • benefit plan administration. We have no assurance that cutting overhead in this fashion will have the anticipated benefits to our operating results. Additionally, we have no assurance that these reorganizations will not significantly disrupt the operations of the affected subsidiaries. 12 Table of Contents Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Retain and Attract Key Personnel Our success and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to retain our executives and key personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends on our ability to attract highly qualified engineering, manufacturing, and technical sales and support personnel for our operations. Competition for such personnel, particularly qualified engineers, is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our failure to attract or retain such persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Current Distribution Channels May be Unavailable if Our Manufacturers’ Representatives Decide to Work Primarily With One of Our Competitors We provide our manufacturers’ representatives with the ability to offer a full product line of air filtration products to existing and new customers. Some of our competitors offer similar arrangements. We do not have exclusive relationships with all of our representatives. Consequently, if our representatives decide to work primarily with one of our competitors, our current distribution channels, and hence, our sales, could be significantly reduced. We may have additional tax liability. We are subject to complex income tax and other taxing regulations. Significant judgment is required in the determination of a provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits in any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the status of a given tax audit or related litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision or net income may result in a period or periods from initial recognition in our reported financial results to the final closure that tax auditor settlement of related litigation when the ultimate tax and related cash flow is known with certainty. Management Controls a Significant Percentage of Our Stock As of December 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially held approximately 35.50% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, such shareholders effectively control or significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters include the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that may otherwise be advantageous to the non-affiliated shareholders. We May be Required to Issue Stock in the Future That Will Dilute the Value of Our Existing Stock We have granted options to purchase a total of 2,905,000 shares of common stock to various parties with exercise prices ranging from $2.50 to $11.72 per share. The majority of these options are currently exercisable. Additionally, if the option holders exercise their options, the interests of current shareholders may be diluted. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Our internal control over financial reporting may have weaknesses or inadequacies that may be material. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and our auditor to attest to such evaluation on an annual basis. Management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2008. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is expected to be expensive and time-consuming and may negatively impact our results of operations. While our management did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2008 and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot make any assurances that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If any material weaknesses are identified in the future, we may be required to make material changes in our internal control over financial reporting, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, upon such occurrence, our management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. If we cannot conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting, which may cause the value of our common stock to decrease. Our Shareholders May Not Realize Certain Opportunities Because of North Carolina Law We are subject to the Control Shares Acquisition Act of the State of North Carolina. This act provides that any person who acquires “control shares” of a publicly held North Carolina corporation will not have voting rights with respect to the acquired shares in certain circumstances. The North Carolina Shareholder Protection Act requires the affirmative vote of 95% of our voting shares to approve a business combination with any entity that beneficially owns 20% of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation unless the “fair price” provisions of the Act are satisfied. These provisions could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or other advantages that large accumulations of stock would typically provide. Our Business Can be Significantly Affected by Environmental Laws The constantly changing body of environmental laws and regulations may significantly influence our business and products. These laws and regulations require that various environmental standards be met and impose liability for the failure to comply with such standards. While we endeavor at each of our facilities to assure compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and are currently not aware of any ongoing issues of this nature, we cannot be certain that our operations or activities, or historical operations by others at our locations, will not result in civil or criminal enforcement actions or private actions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We have, in the past, and may, in the future, purchase or lease properties with unresolved potential violations of federal or state environmental regulations. In these transactions, we have been successful in obtaining sufficient indemnification and mitigating the impact of the issues without recognizing significant expenses associated with litigation and cleanup. However, purchasing or leasing these properties requires us to weigh the cost of resolving these issues and the likelihood of litigation against the potential economic and business benefits of the transaction. If we fail to correctly identify, resolve and obtain indemnification against these risks, they could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. Fire disruptions may adversely affect our business Our raw materials and manufacturing process involve a risk of fire loss or disruption. We have recently experienced three fires. In April 2006, a manufacturing facility in Texas was destroyed by fire. In July 2007, a manufacturing facility in Bartow, Florida was destroyed by fire. In 2008 a manufacturing facility in Auburn, Pennsylvania was damaged by fire. To date we have been able to mitigate the effects of fires and floods by transferring manufacturing, warehousing and shipping to other facilities. Our management has advised us that to date we have been insured 14 Table of Contents against the losses caused by such fires. Although we intend to increase security and increase fire protection equipment at our facilities, another major fire could occur and materially affect our operations. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain business interruption, loss of income and physical damage insurance in sufficient amounts to fully recoup losses caused by fire or other natural disasters. It is an event of default under our credit facility with Bank of America if we are not fully insured for any loss, theft, damage or destruction to our assets, subject to agreeable insurance deductibles, that exceeds $200. Covenants in our credit facilities could restrict our ability to borrow additional funds, which could impair the improvement and expansion of our operations Certain covenants in our credit facility with Bank of America restrict the types and amounts of additional indebtedness that we may incur. In addition, the credit facility contains specific financial covenants. These restrictions could inhibit our ability to improve and expand our operations. Our credit facility with Bank of America matures in October 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain covenant compliance, negotiate extensions to this credit facility or find a replacement credit facility on comparable terms. We pledged substantially all of our assets as security for the Bank of America credit facility. A significant amount of our leased physical facilities are owned by an affiliate of Mr. Amerson and a substantial number of our shares are pledged to a financial institution. We are currently the lessee under a series of six (6) real estate operating leases for approximately 1,031,000 square feet of warehousing, shipping and manufacturing facilities, expiring between 2025 and 2028 with Wal-Pat II, LLC (“Wal-Pat”), an entity owned by Robert R. Amerson. Mr. Amerson is our CEO and Chairman of our Board of Directors and beneficially owns approximately 29.4% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2008. Mr. Amerson acquired Mr. Clark’s interest in Wal-Pat as part of the Settlement and Mutual Release with Mr. Clark, as described below. Our aggregate monthly base lease payment obligation to Wal-Pat is approximately $228,000. Our total remaining aggregate obligation under the Wal-Pat operating leases is approximately $48,098,000. These amounts exclude any obligations for payment of real estate taxes and repairs and maintenance, which are our responsibility as the lessee. In September 2007, we entered into a Master Lease Modification Agreement with Wal-Pat, which requires Wal-Pat to notify us at least thirty (30) days in advance of any future proposed sale of any of the premises or a proposed sale of a majority of the equity interests in Wal-Pat. In such event, we have the right to accept, renegotiate or terminate the leases. We were granted a future right of first refusal in connection with a sale of any of the leased Wal-Pat facilities. In the event of a future sale of Flanders, which includes a merger, sale of substantially all of our assets or acquisition of greater than 50% of our shares, by a party other than Mr. Amerson, then Flanders is granted the right to terminate or renegotiate the terms of the Wal-Pat leases. We also have a fair market value purchase option for the facilities we lease from Wal-Pat. A default by us under the terms of any of these leases or a default by Wal-Pat, or Mr. Amerson, as guarantor on their obligations to BB&T, the financial institution which holds mortgages and deeds of trust on these properties, could adversely affect our leasehold interests in these properties. Mr. Amerson has pledged 5,128,103 of our common shares as security to BB&T in order to facilitate the financings to Wal-Pat, other personal loans, and the acquisition of Mr. Clark’s shares. In October 2007, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release, effective as of September 30, 2007 (“Settlement Agreement”), by and between Mr. Clark, our former CFO, Mr. Amerson, Mr. Smith and Wal-Pat. A copy of the Settlement Agreement was filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K, dated October 5, 2007, to which reference is hereby made. In connection with the Settlement Agreement, Mr. Smith and Mr. Amerson each acquired 755,183 of our common shares from Mr. Clark at a purchase price of $4.60 per share. Mr. Smith and Mr. Amerson pledged these shares to BB&T, who provided financing for the acquisition of these shares. A default by either Mr. Amerson or Mr. Smith under their loan obligations to BB&T could result in BB&T foreclosing upon our shares, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and substantially reduce our key management’s equity ownership interest. We filed a Form S-3 registering 5,118,103 shares of our common stock pledged to BB&T by Mr. Amerson. We are not currently aware of any events of default under the financial documents between Wal-Pat, Mr. Amerson, Mr. Smith, and BB&T. 15 Table of Contents Because of the foregoing factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We received a comment letter dated November 24, 2008 in connection with a Form S-3 filing. The staff reviewed our Form 10-K for December 31, 2007 and issued several comments requesting changes to our future Form 10-K filings. We do not believe that there are any material unresolved comments in connection with the staff’s review of our Form 10-K for December 31, 2007. We have attempted to address the staff’s comments in this Form 10-K. 