ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Anyone considering an investment in our company should read this report carefully, noting the descriptions of the various risks and uncertainties involved in our business, including but not limited to the following: 5 Need for Additional Capital. We will need additional funds to continue our corporate existence and maintain our basic functions. We will need substantial funds to finance our marketing activities if and when they commence. Since our inception we have been dependent on obtaining operating capital from private investors, including one present and one former Director. We may be unable to raise additional capital on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, and if we raise capital through additional equity financing, the ownership interests of existing shareholders may be diluted. Our failure to generate adequate funds would severely harm our business. See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS" below in this Report. Reliance on Anthony Silverman's Financial Assistance. Since October 22, 2003, we have relied substantially on the advice and assistance of Mr. Anthony Silverman, who became CEO and President on April 3, 2009, in structuring our financing, identifying sources of funding and acting as such a source himself. Mr. Silverman and his affiliates own 22,530,302 shares] of our common stock (approximately 14.49% of the voting stock). Although we believe that Mr. Silverman presently intends to continue rendering such assistance, there is no assurance that this assistance will continue as before. Delinquent SEC Filings. By letter dated August 12, 2009, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") notified us that unless we become current with our required public filings by August 27, 2009, the SEC may cause the Company to be de-registered under the securities laws and that the SEC may issue an order suspending public trading of the Company's securities. As a result of preliminary conversations with the staff of the SEC, the Company believes that additional time may be granted that will be sufficient for the Company to be compliant with its filings. However, there is no assurance of that outcome. Such de-registration and suspension of trading will seriously limit the ability of investors to re-sell any of our shares held by them. In June, 2009, we began an effort to achieve compliance with all reporting requirements and those efforts were completed with the filing of this Report. 6 Short Term Indebtedness. The following table summarizes our required current outstanding debt as of August 31, 2008, including our short-term notes payable, short-term convertible notes payable, long-term convertible notes payable and their respective due dates. To the extent the convertible notes are not converted, funds for repayment will have to be raised through additional debt or equity financings. Accrued ------- Due Date Interest Rate Amount Interest*** Total Owed Convertible/Non-Convertible -------- ------------- ------ ----------- ---------- --------------------------- 03/31/2009(1) 10.00% $ 63,822 $ 7,012 $ 70,834 Convertible at $0.15 per share 03/31/2012(2) 12.00% 2,712 1,237 3,949 Convertible at $0.15 per share 12/4/2008 (3) 8.00% 125,000 12,548 137,548 Convertible at $0.15 per share 03/31/2009(4) 8.00% 75,000 12,784 87,784 Convertible at $0.15 per share 3/31/2009 (5) 6.00% 1,265,000 122,481 1,387,481 Convertible at $0.30 per share 1/22/2010 (6) 6.00% 30,000 3,847 33,847 Convertible at $0.30 per share 9/17/2009 6.00% 1,090,000 83,828 1,173,828 Convertible at $0.30 per share ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- $ 2,651,534 $ 243,737 $ 2,895,271 ================ ================ ================ (1) Debt held by Anthony Silverman, our CEO, President and member of our Board of Directors. Principal and accrued interest converted 7/27/09 into 1,416,672 shares of common stock. (2) Debt held by Stanley Schloz, a former member of our Board of Directors. Note extended 4/29/09. (3) Amount currently in default. Investor verbally agreed to extend the note to 08/31/09. Currently we have not received the necessary written documentation regarding that extension. Interest calculated through 8/31/09. (4) Principal and accrued interest converted 7/27/09 into 1,755,673 shares of common stock. (5) Principal and accrued interest converted 7/27/09 into 27,749,616 shares of common stock. (6) Note extended 8/11/09. *** Interest calculated to maturity or conversion Technology Uncertainties. Our business is subject to the risks inherent in any new technology company, including that the IUTM product will not function as we expect, that successful commercial development may take substantially more time and effort than anticipated, that IUTM may run out of funds before development is complete and that a competitor's product may come to the market before we are able to do so. See "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS" below in this Report. Reliance on Key Personnel. Our success will largely depend upon our ability to recruit and retain personnel with suitable marketing and management experience. Competition for these personnel and relationships is intense and we expect to compete with numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as with universities and non-profit research organizations. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. Going Concern Qualification. We have disclosed in our financial statements that they were prepared under the assumption that the Company will continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses from operations over the past several years and anticipate additional losses in the future. Our independent auditors have included language in their report included on our 2008 financial statements that indicates that these matters raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities or obtaining loans from various financial sources where possible. The going concern qualification increases the difficulty of meeting such goals. Industry Intensely Competitive. The medical device industry is intensely competitive. We will compete with both public and private medical device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have been established longer than we have, have a greater number of products on the market, have greater financial and other resources and have other technological or competitive advantages. We also compete in the development of technologies and processes and in acquiring personnel and technology from academic institutions, government agencies, and other private and public research organizations. We cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business will not benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities or will not develop products that are accepted more widely than ours. 7 Intellectual Property Risk. The patent positions of medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Patent rights, if granted, may not be upheld in a court of law if challenged. Patent rights may not provide competitive advantages and may be challenged, infringed upon or circumvented by competitors. Products cannot be patented in all countries nor can any small company, such as IUTM and us afford to litigate every potential violation worldwide. Because of the large number of patent filings in the medical device and biotechnology field, competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents do not exist or will not be issued that would harm our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates. Exposure to Product Liability Claims. The design, testing, development, manufacture, and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and related adverse publicity. Insurance coverage is expensive and difficult to obtain and, in the future, we may be unable to obtain coverage on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost or if a successful product liability claim is made against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business could be harmed. Exposure to Environmental Risks. Our business as contemplated to be carried on involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics, and radioactive compounds. Manufacturing is extremely susceptible to product loss due to radioactive, microbial, or viral contamination; material equipment failure; or vendor or operator error; or due to the very nature of the product's short half-life. Although we believe that when we become operational, our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials will comply with state and federal standards there will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In addition, radioactive, microbial, or viral contamination may cause the closure of the respective manufacturing facility for an extended period. By law, radioactive materials may only be disposed of at state-approved facilities. If we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages, and penalties that could harm our business. Uncertainty as to our Ability to Initiate Operations and Manage Growth. Our efforts to carry out plans to market medical products will result in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and will place a strain upon our management, financial systems, and resources. We may be required to continue to implement and to improve our management, operating and financial systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our employees. There can be no assurance that our personnel, systems, procedures, and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None, except as discussed above with respect to delinquent reports. 