Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties discussed below, as well as any modification, replacement or update to these risks and uncertainties that are reflected in any subsequent filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently perceive as immaterial, also may adversely affect us. Risks Associated With Our Business We have operated at a loss and will likely continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. We have operated at a loss due to our ongoing expenditures for research and development of our product candidates and for general and administrative purposes and lack of significant recurring revenue. We incurred net losses of $27.0 million, $21.9 million and $16.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 of approximately $192.0 million. We are likely to continue to incur losses unless and until we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict when we may become profitable, if at all. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Because we have no source of significant recurring revenue, we must depend on financing to sustain our operations. Developing products and conducting clinical trials require substantial amounts of capital. To date, we have relied primarily upon proceeds from sales of our equity securities and the exercise of options and warrants to generate funds needed to finance our business and operations. We will need to raise additional capital to, among other things: · fund our clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our existing and possible future product candidates; · expand our research and development activities; 16 · finance our general and administrative expenses; · acquire or license new technologies; · prepare, file, prosecute, maintain, enforce and defend our patent and other proprietary rights; and · develop and implement sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to successfully commercialize any product for which we obtain marketing approval and choose to market ourselves. Our revenues were $6.3 million, $7.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, for years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, which included $6.2 million, $7.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of deferred revenue recognized from our sale in August 2006 of a one-percent royalty interest in worldwide sales of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS. We will have no significant recurring revenue unless we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates in development, which may require us to first enter into license or other strategic arrangements with third parties. At December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $25.0 million. We believe that CytRx’s current resources will be sufficient to support its currently planned level of operations through the first quarter of 2010. This estimate is based, in part, upon our currently projected expenditures for 2009 of approximately $22 million, including approximately $7.1 million for our clinical program for tamibarotene, approximately $3.4 million for our clinical program for INNO-206, approximately $0.6 million for our clinical program for INNO-406, approximately $0.5 million for our animal toxicology studies and related activities for arimoclomol, approximately $1.8 million for operating our clinical programs, approximately $2.7 million for research activities at its laboratory in San Diego, California, and approximately $5.9 million for other general and administrative expenses. As described in the risk factor that follows below in this section, these projected expenditures are based upon numerous assumptions and subject to many uncertainties, and our actual expenditures may be significantly different from these projections. If we obtain marketing approval as currently planned and successfully commercialize our product candidates, we anticipate it will take a minimum of three years, and possibly longer, for us to generate significant recurring revenue, and we will be dependent on future financing until such time, if ever, as we can generate significant recurring revenue. Our ability to raise capital has been materially and adversely affected by the downturn in the financial markets and poor economy, which have severely depressed the market for private investment in public equities, or PIPEs, transactions on which we have relied for raising needed capital. These conditions also have materially and adversely affected the market for our RXi shares. We have no commitments from third parties to provide us with any additional financing, and we may not be able to obtain future financing on favorable terms, or at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing would adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may result and new investors could have rights superior to holders of the shares issued in this offering. In addition, debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets or to delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate some portion or all of our development programs or clinical trials. We also may have to license to other companies our product candidates or technologies that we would prefer to develop and commercialize ourselves. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, or if our financial projections prove to be materially inaccurate, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and our business prospects may suffer. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. For example, we have stated in this Annual Report the expected timing of certain milestones relating to our tamibarotene, INNO-206 and arimoclomol clinical development programs. We also may disclose projected expenditures or other forecasts for future periods such as the statements above in this Annual Report regarding any current projected expenditures for fiscal year 2009. These and other financial projections are based on management’s current expectations and do not contain any margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties, or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. The assumptions management has used to produce these projections may significantly change or prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, you should not unduly rely on any of these projections. 17 The actual timing of milestones and actual expenditures or other financial results can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet milestones or financial projections as announced from time to time, the development and commercialization of our products may be delayed and our business prospects may suffer. If our products are not successfully developed and approved by the FDA, we may be forced to reduce or curtail our operations. All of our product candidates in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA and foreign government approvals is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically includes the conduct of extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, including post-approval testing, which may take longer or cost more than we or our licensees, if any, anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these product candidates may not necessarily be predictive of the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our product development efforts, including the following: · difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials; · difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; · unexpected adverse reactions by patients in trials; · difficulty in obtaining clinical supplies of the product; · changes in or our inability to comply with FDA or foreign governmental product testing, manufacturing or marketing requirements; · regulatory inspections of clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us or our manufacturers or licensees to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate the affected clinical trials if investigators find them not to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements; · inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the safety and efficacy of the product being tested; · modification of the product during testing; and · reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory agencies may lack experience in evaluating our product candidates. For example, we are aware of only one drug that the FDA has approved to treat ALS. This inexperience may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of arimoclomol or our other product candidates. It is possible that none of the product candidates we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them. The time required to obtain FDA and foreign governmental approvals is unpredictable, but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the product candidate. Any analysis we perform on data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our products and the manufacturing facilities used to produce them will be subject to continual review, including periodic inspections and mandatory post- approval clinical trials by the FDA and other US and foreign regulatory authorities. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals or to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular product candidate. The failure to comply with any post-approval regulatory requirements also could also result in the rescission of the related regulatory approvals or the suspension of sales of the offending product. 18 Our current and planned clinical trials of our product candidates may fail to show that these product candidates are clinically safe and effective. Our Phase IIa clinical trial and open-label extension clinical trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS indicated that arimoclomol was safe and well-tolerated in patients, but the results of the open-label extension clinical trial indicated only a non-statistically significant trend of improvement in the ALSFRS-R in the arimoclomol high-dose group as compared with reports of previous studies of untreated patients. This trial did not have concurrent placebo control group, so we could draw no definitive conclusions with respect to efficacy. Further development of arimoclomal for ALS and stroke recovery, as well as clinical development of iroxanadine for diabetic foot ulcers, would require significant additional testing, and it is possible that the favorable safety data we observed in earlier trials may not be reproduced in any later trials. Tamibarotene has been shown to be safe, well-tolerated, and efficacious in the Japanese population. However, it is possible that the response to the drug may be different in American/European populations. Furthermore, the efficacy studies that led to approval in Japan occurred prior to the advent of the use of ATO for second line therapy. It is possible that the current use of ATO could alter the safety or efficacy of tamibarotene. Finally, the FDA may not accept the Japanese studies as a database for safety in the US. INNO-206 was no more toxic than free doxorubicin in a Phase I clinical trial and showed limited biological responses against tumors. However, these conclusions may not be reproducible in larger clinical trials. Furthermore, future clinical trials will likely include multiple dosing with INNO-206 instead of the single doses used in the Phase I clinical trial. Later trials also may not yield statistically significant data indicating that these product candidates are clinically effective. Accordingly, we, or any development partners, may ultimately be unable to provide the FDA with satisfactory data on clinical safety and efficacy sufficient to obtain FDA approval of tamibarotene, INNO-206, arimoclomol or iroxanadine for these indications. The FDA placed a clinical hold on our Phase IIb efficacy trial of arimoclomol for ALS, which will delay further development of arimoclomol. In January 2008, the FDA placed a clinical hold on our Phase IIb clinical efficacy trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS due to concerns relating to previous toxicology studies of arimoclomol in rats. We have submitted additional information to the FDA regarding these concerns, and we are completing additional animal toxicology studies to obtain additional safety data that we plan to submit to the FDA in the second quarter of 2009. We cannot predict the results of these additional studies, however, or how long the FDA may take to complete its review. Depending on the outcome of the FDA’s review, the FDA could require: · additional toxicology or human studies prior to or in parallel with the resumption of clinical trials, which would result in substantial additional expenses and possible significant delays in completing the clinical trials; or · changes in the design of our previously planned Phase IIb clinical efficacy trial, including a reduction in the planned dosage of arimoclomol, which could delay further or increase the cost of the trial, adversely affect our ability to demonstrate the efficacy of arimoclomol in the trial or cause the cancellation of the trial altogether due to one or more of these consideration. If we are unable to resolve the FDA’s safety concerns, the FDA may prohibit the resumption of trials of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS and all other indications. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, these product candidates may not achieve market acceptance or be profitable. We do not expect to receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates for several years, if at all. Even if we do receive regulatory approvals, the future commercial success of these drug candidates will depend, among other things, on their acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and other members of the medical community as therapeutic and cost-effective alternatives to commercially available products. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue our business. 19 Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely effected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: · they are “incidental” to a physician’s services, · they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice, · they are not excluded as immunizations, and · they have been approved by the FDA. We may rely upon third parties in connection with the commercialization of our products. We currently plan to continue the development of tamibarotene for the treatment of APL through a third-party clinical trials management service, and may retain the services of site management and clinical research organizations to help conduct our other clinical trials. We may seek to complete the development of tamibarotene and market it ourselves if it is approved by the FDA. However, the completion of the development of tamibarotene and our other product candidates, as well as the marketing of these products, may require us to enter into strategic alliances, license agreements or other collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies under which those companies will be responsible for one or more aspects of the commercial development and eventual marketing of our products. Our products may not have sufficient potential commercial value to enable us to secure strategic arrangements with suitable companies on attractive terms, or at all. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements, we may not have the financial or other resources to complete the development of any of our products and may have to sell our rights in them to a third party or abandon their development altogether. To the extent we enter into collaborative arrangements, we will be dependent upon the timeliness and effectiveness of the development and marketing efforts of our contractual partners. If these companies do not allocate sufficient personnel and resources to these efforts or encounter difficulties in complying with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, we may not obtain regulatory approvals as planned, if at all, and the timing of receipt or the amount of revenue from these arrangements may be materially and adversely affected. By entering into these arrangements rather than completing the development and then marketing these products on our own, the profitability to us of these products may decline. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We believe that obtaining and maintaining patent and other intellectual property rights for our technologies and potential products is critical to establishing and maintaining the value of our assets and our business. We will be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we have rights to valid and enforceable patents or other proprietary rights that cover them. Although we have patents and patent applications directed to our molecular chaperone amplification technologies, these 20 patents and applications may not prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies. In addition, our patents may be held to be invalid if challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. and in many foreign countries. The application and enforcement of patent laws and regulations in foreign countries is even more uncertain. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively file, protect or defend our proprietary rights on a consistent basis. Many of the patents and patent applications on which we rely were issued or filed by third parties prior to the time we acquired rights to them. The validity, enforceability and ownership of those patents and patent applications may be challenged, and if a court decides that our patents are not valid, we will not have the right to stop others from using our inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents is upheld, a court may refuse to stop others on the ground that their activities do not infringe our patents. Any litigation brought by us to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition, make it more difficult for us to enter into strategic alliances with third parties to develop our products, or discourage our existing licensees from continuing their development work on our potential products. If our patent coverage is insufficient to prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies, the value of our assets is likely to be materially and adversely affected. We also rely on certain proprietary trade secrets and know-how, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and know-how are difficult to protect. Although we have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and some of our contractors, it is possible that these persons may disclose our trade secrets or know-how or that our competitors may independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets and know-how. If our product candidates infringe the rights of others, we could be subject to expensive litigation or be required to obtain licenses from others to develop or market them. Our competitors or others may have patent rights that they choose to assert against us or our licensees, suppliers, customers or potential collaborators. Moreover, we may not know about patents or patent applications that our products would infringe. For example, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our arimoclomol, iroxanadine or other product candidates would infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming technology also claimed by us in issued patents or pending applications, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the US Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our foreign patent applications. If a third party claims that we infringe its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: · we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; · we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a competitor’s patent; · a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and · we may have to redesign our product candidates or technology so that it does not infringe patent rights of others, which may not be possible or commercially feasible. If any of these events occurs, our business and prospects will suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline substantially. 21 We have reported, in the past, material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we cannot maintain effective internal controls or provide reliable financial and other information, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports. Within the past several years: · we identified a material weakness related to our accounting for an equity transaction by RXi and our tax withholding in connection with exercises of employee stock options. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and extended the filing of our quarterly report for the quarter ended September 30, 2007; · we identified a material weakness related to our accounting for transactions at our former laboratory facility in Worcester, Massachusetts. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006; · we improperly applied generally accepted accounting principles related to our accounting for deemed dividends incurred in connection with anti-dilution adjustments made to our outstanding warrants. This misapplication of accounting principles constituted a material weakness and caused us to twice restate our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, as well as restate our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006; and · we miscalculated pro forma employee stock option compensation figures disclosed in the footnotes to our financial statements. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, we concluded in our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2007 and in our quarterly reports for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of those dates. Disclosure controls generally include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. In January 2008, we also filed an amendment to an SEC report to correct certain form errors. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot maintain effective internal controls or provide reliable financial or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer and we may become subject to litigation. We are subject to intense competition, and we may not compete successfully. We and our strategic partners or licensees may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid and significant technological advancements. Many companies, research institutions and universities are working in a number of areas similar to our primary fields of interest to develop new products. There also is intense competition among companies seeking to acquire products that already are being marketed. Many of the companies with which we compete have or are likely to have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us and at least some of our present or future strategic partners or licensees. As a result, these competitors may: · succeed in developing competitive products sooner than us or our strategic partners or licensees; · obtain FDA or foreign governmental approvals for their products before we can obtain approval of any of our products; · obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit the development and commercialization of our product candidate candidates; · develop products that are safer or more effective than our products; 22 · devote greater resources than us to marketing or selling products; · introduce or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies and other scientific advances; · introduce products that render our products obsolete; · withstand price competition more successfully than us or our strategic partners or licensees; · negotiate third-party strategic alliances or licensing arrangements more effectively than us; and · take better advantage than us of other opportunities. Companies that currently sell generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of cancer and related diseases include, but are not limited to, Abraxis BioScience, Amgen, Sanofi-Aventis, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, Cephalon, Genentech, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson and Novartis. Alternative technologies are being developed to treat cancer and related diseases by numerous companies including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eisai, Merck and Genentech, several of which are in advanced clinical trials. There also are FDA approved cancer therapies that are in the late stage of development by larger established companies for new cancer indications: Alimta (Eli Lilly), Avastin (Genentech), Eloxatin (Sanofi-Aventis), Erbitux (Bristol-Myers Squibb and Imclone Systems) and Tarceva (Genentech). Poniard Pharmaceuticals and Celgene are developing compounds for SCLC. Novartis and Bristol-Myers Squibb have each developed a treatment for chronic myelogenous leukemia that would compete with INNO-406. ATRA and Cephalon’s Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) could compete with tamibarotene. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Any of these competing therapies could prove to be more effective than INNO-406, tamibarotene, INNO-206 or any future therapy of ours. We are aware of only one drug, Rilutek, which was developed by Aventis Pharma AG, that has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of ALS. Many companies are working to develop pharmaceuticals to treat ALS, including Aeolus Pharmaceuticals, Celgene Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Ono Pharmaceuticals, Trophos SA, Knopp Neurosciences Inc., Faust Pharmaceuticals SA, Oxford BioMedica plc, Phytopharm plc and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., as well as RXi. ALS patients often take over-the-counter supplements, including vitamin E, creatine and coenzyme Q10, or drugs such as lithium that are approved for other indications. ALS belongs to a family of neurodegenerative diseases that includes Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and Huntington’s diseases. Due to similarities between these diseases, a new treatment for one such disease potentially could be useful for treating others. There are many companies producing and developing drugs used to treat neurodegenerative diseases other than ALS, including Amgen, Inc., Biogen Idec, Boehringer Ingelheim, Cephalon, Inc., Ceregene, Inc., Elan Pharmaceuticals, plc, Forest Laboratories, Inc., H. Lundbeck A/S, Phytopharm plc, UCB Group and Wyeth. Current drug classes used to treat stroke include antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, salycylates, neuroprotectants and thrombolytic agents. Prescription antiplatelet agents include Aggrenox by Boehringer Ingelheim, Plavix by Sanofi-Aventis and Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Ticlid by Roche Pharmaceuticals. Coumadin by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Jantoven by Upsher-Smith Laboratories are branded forms of warfarin, an anticoagulant. Moreover, Salicylates, like aspirin, are commonly used to treat patients after stroke. In Europe, Ferrer Grupo markets the neroprotectant, Somazina. Activase, also known as tissue plasminogen activator, or t-PA, is a thrombolytic agent marketed by Genentech. Many new drug candidates are in development by pharmaceutical and biotech companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, Ipsen, Merck & Co., Ono Pharmaceuticals, PAION AG and Wyeth. In addition to drug therapy, companies such as Medtronic and Northstar Neurosciences are developing neurostimulation medical devices to aid in recovery after stroke. Most of our competitors have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. We will be required to pay substantial milestone and other payments relating to the commercialization of our products. The agreement under which we have North American rights to tamibarotene provides for our payment of royalties based on net sales of any products, as well as aggregate payments of $4.165 million upon meeting specified clinical, regulatory and sales milestones up to and including the first commercial sale of tamibarotene for the treatment of APL. 23 The agreement relating to our worldwide rights to INNO-206 provides for our payment of an aggregate of $7.5 million upon meeting specified clinical and regulatory milestones up to and including the product’s second final marketing approval. We also will be obliged to pay: · commercially reasonable royalties based on a percentage of net sales (as defined in the agreement); · a percentage of non-royalty sub-licensing income (as defined in the agreement); and · milestones of $1,000,000 for each additional final marketing approval that we might obtain. If we are required to pay any third party in order to exercise our rights under the agreement, we will deduct a percentage of those payments from the royalties due under the agreement, up to an agreed-upon cap. Our agreement relating to our worldwide (except Japan) bafetinib provides for our payment of an aggregate of $13.35 million (including $5 million upon the product’s initial final marketing approval) upon the achievement of specified clinical and regulatory milestones up to and including approvals in the U.S. and Europe. We also will be obliged to pay: · commercially reasonable royalties based on a percentage of net sales (as defined in the agreement), dependent on reaching certain revenue thresholds; · annual minimum payments if sales of bafetinib do not meet specified levels; and · a percentage of non-royalty sub-licensing income (as defined in the agreement). Under the merger agreement by which we acquired Innovive, we agreed to pay the former Innovive stockholders also will be entitled to receive up to $1.01 per Innovive share of future earnout merger consideration, subject to our achievement of specified net sales under the Innovive license agreements. The earnout merger consideration, if any, will be payable in shares of our common stock, subject to specified conditions, or, at our election, in cash or by a combination of shares of our common stock and cash. Our common stock will be valued for purposes of any future earnout merger consideration based upon the trading price of our common stock at the time the earnout merger consideration is paid. Our agreement by which we acquired rights to arimoclomol and our other molecular chaperone amplification product candidates provides for milestone payments by us upon the occurrence of specified regulatory filings and approvals related to the acquired products. In the event that we successfully develop arimoclomol or any of these other product candidates, these milestone payments could aggregate as much as $3.7 million, with the most significant payments due upon the first commercialization of any of these products. In addition, our agreement with the ALS CRT requires us to pay a one-percent royalty interest on worldwide sales of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS. Also, any future license, collaborative or other agreements we may enter into in connection with our development and commercialization activities may require us to pay significant milestone, license and other payments in the future. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product supplies. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our product candidates, including tamibarotene, INNO-206, arimoclomol or iroxanadine. Accordingly, we are dependent upon third-party manufacturers, or potential future strategic alliance partners, to manufacture these supplies. We have manufacturing supply arrangements in place with respect to a portion of the clinical supplies needed for the clinical development programs for tamibarotene and arimoclomol. However, we have no supply arrangements for the commercial manufacture of these product candidates or any manufacturing supply arrangements for any other potential product candidates, and we may not be able to secure needed supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our products or to commercialize them. If our product candidates cannot be manufactured in suitable quantities and in accordance with regulatory standards, our clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing efforts for such products may be delayed. Such delays could adversely affect our competitive position and our chances of generating significant recurring revenues. If our products are not able to be manufactured at an acceptable cost, the commercial success of our products may be adversely affected. 24 We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products or, if we obtain marketing approval and commercialize our products, by patients using our commercially marketed products. Even if the commercialization of one or more of our products is approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We maintain clinical trial insurance for our Phase II clinical trial of tamibarotene for APL, and we plan to seek to obtain similar insurance for any other clinical trials that we conduct. We also would seek to obtain product liability insurance covering the commercial marketing of our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance, however, and any insurance obtained by us may prove inadequate in the event of a claim against us. Any claims asserted against us also may divert management’s attention from our operations, and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims even if they are unsuccessful. We may be unable to successfully acquire additional technologies or products. If we require additional technologies or products, our product development plans may change and the ownership interests of our shareholders, or our ownership interest in RXi, could be diluted. We may seek to acquire additional technologies by licensing or purchasing such technologies, or through a merger or acquisition of one or more companies that own such technologies. We have no current understanding or agreement to acquire any technologies, however, and we may not be able to identify or successfully acquire any additional technologies. We also may seek to acquire products from third parties that already are being marketed or have been approved for marketing, although we have not currently identified any of these products. We do not have any prior experience in acquiring or marketing products approved for marketing and may need to find third parties to market any products that we might acquire. Following our acquisition of Innovive in September 2008, we refocused our product development efforts on tamiboratene, which we acquired from Innovive and which we believe has the greatest near-term revenue potential of all of our other product candidates. If we acquire additional technologies or product candidates, we may determine to make further changes to our product development plans and business strategy to capitalize on opportunities presented by the new technologies and product candidates. We may determine to issue shares of our common stock, or to use shares of RXi common stock owned by us, or both, to acquire additional technologies or products or in connection with a merger or acquisition of another company. To the extent we do so, the ownership interest of our stockholders, or our ownership interest in RXi, or both, will be diluted accordingly. We use hazardous materials and must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We could incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Risks Associated With Our Investment in RXi We may sell or dispose of some of our RXi shares, and may not be able to do so on attractive terms. As of March 11, 2009, we owned approximately 6,268,881 shares of common stock of RXi, or approximately 45% of the outstanding RXi common stock. RXi shares are listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “RXi.” During the 12-month period ended March 11, 2009, the market prices for RXi shares as reported on The Nasdaq Capital Market has fluctuated from a high of $23.95 per share to a low of $2.71 per share, and the market price of RXi shares and the value of our RXi shares may continue to experience significant volatility. We believe that the downturn in the financial markets, in particular, and poor economy, generally, have contributed to the volatility of the market price of RXi shares. 25 We may determine to sell or otherwise dispose of our RXi shares in one or more transactions in order to obtain funds to carry on our operations or in connection with our acquisition of new technologies or products. There is no assurance, however, whether, or on what terms, we might be able to sell or dispose of our RXi shares. We believe that the downturn in the financial markets has adversely affected the market for shares of development-stage companies such as RXi. If we undertake to sell our RXi shares, we may have to do so pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which includes certain manner of sale and volume limitations, or seek to negotiate private sales with third parties who are willing to buy those shares. We may be unable to sell or divest our RXi shares at attractive prices, if at all. In addition, any sales or other disposition of RXi shares by us, or the possibility of such sales or disposition, could adversely affect the market price of our remaining RXi shares. If RXi undertakes future financings, our ownership interest in RXi may be diluted. Under our agreement with RXi, with some exceptions, we will have preemptive rights to acquire a portion of any new securities sold or issued by RXi so as to maintain our percentage ownership of RXi. Depending upon the terms and provisions of any proposed sale of new securities by RXi, our financial condition and other factors, we may be unwilling or unable to exercise our preemptive rights. We agreed to waive our preemptive rights in connection with a private placement by RXi in June 2008, which resulted in a reduction in our percentage ownership of RXi from approximately 49% to approximately 45%. If RXi undertakes future issuances of equity securities, our percentage ownership interest in RXi may be diluted further. We do not control RXi, and the officers, directors and other RXi stockholders may have interests that are different from ours. Although we currently own a significant portion of RXi’s outstanding common stock, we do not control its management or operations. RXi has its own board of directors and management, who are responsible for the affairs and policies of RXi and its development plans. We have entered into letter agreements with RXi and certain of its stockholders under which we agree to vote our shares of RXi common stock for the election of directors of RXi and to take other actions to ensure that a majority of RXi’s board of directors are independent of us. The board of directors and other stockholders of RXi may have interests that are different from ours, and RXi may engage in actions in connection with its business and operations that we believe are not in our best interests. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market if the stock price does not increase. We received notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market on May 28, 2008 that we were not in compliance with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price required by Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) and, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), could regain compliance if, by November 24, 2008, our common stock closes at or above $1.00 for 10 consecutive business days and we otherwise meet the Nasdaq's continuing listing requirements. On October 16, 2008, Nasdaq announced that it had temporarily suspended until January 16, 2009 the enforcement of its rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. On December 19, 2008, Nasdaq extended the temporary suspension of its minimum bid price rule. As a result, we will have until April 20, 2009 to regain compliance with this rule, assuming no further actions by Nasdaq in this regard. However, in its original notice to us on May 28, 2008, Nasdaq also informed us that, if we did not regain compliance by the stated deadline, we would be granted up to an additional 180 calendar days to regain full compliance while continuing to trade during such time if we meet the Nasdaq's initial listing requirements other than the minimum bid price rule. If we eventually fail to comply with this condition for continued listing and our common stock is delisted from The Nasdaq Small Capital Market, there is no assurance that our common stock will be listed for trading or quoted elsewhere and an active trading market for our common stock may cease to exist, which would materially and adversely impact the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions may make it more difficult to change our management, or may discourage others from acquiring us, and thereby adversely affect stockholder value. We have a stockholder rights plan and provisions in our bylaws that are intended to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. These provisions may discourage or prevent a person or group from acquiring us without the approval of our board of directors, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. 26 We have a classified board of directors, which means that at least two stockholder meetings, instead of one, will be required to effect a change in the majority control of our board of directors. This applies to every election of directors, not just an election occurring after a change in control. The classification of our board increases the amount of time it takes to change majority control of our board of directors and may cause potential acquirers to lose interest in a potential purchase of us, regardless of whether our purchase would be beneficial to us or our stockholders. The additional time and cost to change a majority of the members of our board of directors makes it more difficult and may discourage our existing stockholders from seeking to change our existing management in order to change the strategic direction or operational performance of our company. Our bylaws provide that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors. This provision prevents stockholders from removing any incumbent director without cause. Our bylaws also provide that a stockholder must give us at least 120 days notice of a proposal or director nomination that such stockholder desires to present at any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders. Such provision prevents a stockholder from making a proposal or director nomination at a stockholder meeting without us having advance notice of that proposal or director nomination. This could make a change in control more difficult by providing our directors with more time to prepare an opposition to a proposed change in control. By making it more difficult to remove or install new directors, these bylaw provisions may also make our existing management less responsive to the views of our stockholders with respect to our operations and other issues such as management selection and management compensation. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may also prevent or delay a takeover of us that may be beneficial to you. Our outstanding options and warrants and the availability for resale of our shares issued in our private financings may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there were outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 18.0 million shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $1.58 per share. Our outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions, since the holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when we may be able to obtain additional capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than the terms of outstanding options and warrants. For the life of the options and warrants, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants will also dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Many of our outstanding warrants contain anti-dilution provisions pertaining to dividends with respect to our common stock. Outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 9.3 million shares contain anti-dilution provisions that are triggered upon any issuance of securities by us below the prevailing market price of our common stock. Our distribution to our stockholders of RXi shares on March 11, 2008 required us to reduce the exercise price of those warrants. In the event that these anti-dilution provisions are triggered by us in the future, we would likewise be required to reduce the exercise price, and increase the number of shares underlying, those warrants, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have registered with the SEC the resale by the holders of all or substantially all shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options and warrants. The availability of these shares for public resale, as well as actual resales of these shares, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, sinking fund provisions, and restrictions on our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. We may experience volatility in our stock price, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.23 to $5.49 per share since January 1, 2007, and it may continue to experience significant volatility from time to time. Our ability to raise capital has been materially and adversely affected by the 27 downturn in the financial markets and poor economy, which have severely depressed the market for PIPEs transactions on which we have relied for raising needed capital. Other factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include the following: · announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners; · changes in our ownership of or other relationships with RXi; · our quarterly operating results; · litigation involving or affecting us; · shortfalls in our actual financial results compared to our guidance or the forecasts of stock market analysts; · developments in patent or other technology ownership rights; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · public concern regarding the safety of our products; and · government regulation of drug pricing. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment in our common stock except to the extent of any appreciation in the value of our common stock. Our common stock may not appreciate in value, or may decline in value. Item 