Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties discussed below, as well as any modification, replacement or update to these risks and uncertainties that are reflected in any subsequent filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently perceive as immaterial, also may adversely affect us. Risks Associated With Our Business We have operated at a loss and will likely continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. We have operated at a loss due to our substantial expenditures for research and development of our product candidates and for general and administrative purposes and our lack of significant recurring revenue. We incurred net losses of $21.9 million, $16.8 million and $15.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2007 of approximately $161.5 million. We are likely to continue to incur losses unless and until we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict when we may become profitable, if at all. If we are unable to achieve and then maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Because we have no source of significant recurring revenue, we must depend on financing to sustain our operations. Developing products and conducting clinical trials require substantial amounts of capital. To date, we have relied primarily upon proceeds from sales of our equity securities and the exercise of options and warrants, and to a much lesser extent, upon payments from our strategic partners and licensees, to generate funds needed to finance our business and operations. We will need to raise additional capital to, among other things: • fund our clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our existing and possible future product candidates; • expand our research and development activities; • finance our general and administrative expenses; • acquire or license technologies; • prepare, file, prosecute, maintain, enforce and defend our patent and other proprietary rights; and • develop and implement sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to successfully commercialize any product for which we obtain marketing approval and choose to market ourselves. Our revenues were $7.5 million, $2.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 included $7.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively, of deferred revenue recognized from our sale in August 2006 of a one-percent royalty interest in worldwide sales of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS. We will have no significant recurring revenue unless we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates in development, which may require us to first enter into license or other strategic arrangements with third parties. At December 31, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $60.4 million, including $11.7 million held by RXi. We believe that CytRx’s current resources will be sufficient to support our currently planned level of operations into the second half of 2009. This estimate is based, in part, upon our currently projected expenditures for 2008 of approximately $29.2 million, including approximately $5.1 million for our clinical program for arimoclomol for ALS and related studies, approximately $6.4 million for our planned Phase II clinical trial of arimoclomol in stroke patients and Phase II clinical trial of iroxanadine for diabetic ulcers, approximately $9.2 million for equipping and operating our research laboratory in San Diego, California, and approximately $8.5 million for other general and administrative expenses. Management believes that RXi’s current resources will be sufficient to support its currently planned level of operations into the second quarter of 2009. As described in the risk factor that 12 Table of Contents follows below in this section, these projected expenditures are based upon numerous assumptions and subject to many uncertainties, and our actual expenditures may be significantly different from these projections. If we obtain marketing approval as currently planned and successfully commercialize our product candidates, we anticipate it will take a minimum of three years, and possibly longer, for us to generate significant recurring revenue, and we will be dependent on future financing until such time, if ever, as we can generate significant recurring revenue. We have no commitments from third parties to provide us with any additional financing, and we may not be able to obtain future financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may result and new investors could have rights superior to holders of the shares issued in this offering. In addition, debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets or to delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate some portion or all of our development programs or clinical trials. We also may have to license to other companies our product candidates or technologies that we would prefer to develop and commercialize ourselves. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, or if our financial projections prove to be materially inaccurate, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and our stock price may significantly decline. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. For example, we have disclosed in this Annual Report the expected timing of certain milestones relating to our arimoclomol and iroxanadine clinical development program. We also may disclose projected expenditures or other forecasts for future periods. For example, we have stated above in this Annual Report that we currently project total expenditures for fiscal year 2008 to be approximately $29.2 million, including approximately $5.1 million for our clinical program for arimoclomol for ALS and related studies, approximately $6.4 million for our planned Phase II clinical trial of arimoclomol in stroke patients and Phase II clinical trial of iroxanadine for diabetic ulcers, approximately $9.2 million for equipping and operating our research laboratory in San Diego, California and approximately $8.5 million for other general and administrative expenses. Our financial projections are based on management’s current expectations and do not contain any “cushion” for any specific uncertainties, or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. The assumptions management has used to produce these projections may significantly change or prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, you should not unduly rely on any of these projections. The actual timing of milestones and actual expenditures or other financial results can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet milestones or financial projections as announced from time to time, our stock price may significantly decline and the development and commercialization of our products may be delayed. If our products are not successfully developed and approved by the FDA, we may be forced to reduce or curtail our operations. All of our product candidates in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA and foreign government approvals is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically includes the conduct of extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, including post-approval testing, which may take longer or cost more than we or our licensees, if any, anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these product candidates may not necessarily be predictive of the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our product development efforts, including the following: • difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials; • difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; • unexpected adverse reactions by patients in trials; 13 Table of Contents • difficulty in obtaining clinical supplies of the product; • changes in or our inability to comply with FDA or foreign governmental product testing, manufacturing or marketing requirements; • regulatory inspections of clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us or our manufacturers or licensees to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate the affected clinical trials if investigators find them not to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements; • inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the safety and efficacy of the product being tested; • modification of the product during testing; and • reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory agencies may lack experience in evaluating product candidates to treat ALS. For example, we are aware of only one drug that the FDA has approved to treat ALS. This inexperience may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of arimoclomol or our other product candidates. It is possible that none of the product candidates we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them. The time required to obtain FDA and foreign governmental approvals is unpredictable, but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the product candidate. Any analysis we perform on data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our products and the manufacturing facilities used to produce them will be subject to continual review, including periodic inspections and mandatory post- approval clinical trials by the FDA and other US and foreign regulatory authorities. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals or to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular product candidate. The failure to comply with any post-approval regulatory requirements also could also result in the rescission of the related regulatory approvals or the suspension of sales of the offending product. Our current and planned clinical trials of our molecular chaperone amplification product candidates may fail to show that these product candidates are clinically safe and effective. The results of our Phase IIa clinical trial and open-label extension clinical trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS indicated that arimoclomol was safe and well-tolerated in patients. However, the results of the open-label extension clinical trial indicated only a non-statistically significant trend of improvement in the ALSFRS in the arimoclomol high-dose group as compared with reports of previous studies of untreated patients. Because this trial did not have concurrent placebo control group, we can draw no definitive conclusions with respect to efficacy. In December 2007, we initiated a Phase IIb efficacy trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS, and we plan to undertake a second efficacy trial of arimoclomol for ALS, possibly overlapping with the Phase IIb efficacy trial, to provide additional data to support possible FDA approval. In addition, we plan to conduct a Phase II clinical trial of arimoclomol in stroke patients and to pursue clinical development of iroxanadine for diabetic ulcers, both of which would require significant additional testing. The FDA may also require additional, larger Phase III clinical trials before we may submit an application for marketing approval. None of these trials may yield favorable safety and efficacy data, and the FDA may disagree with how we interpret the data from these clinical trials. For example, the favorable safety data we observed in earlier trials may not be reproduced in these later trials, and these later trials may not yield statistically significant data indicating that the product candidates are clinically effective. Accordingly, we may ultimately be unable to provide the FDA with satisfactory data on clinical safety and efficacy sufficient to enable the FDA to approve arimoclomol or iroxanadine for these indications. The FDA recently placed a clinical hold on our Phase IIb efficacy trial of arimoclomol, which will delay the trial and could lead to a requirement that we conduct additional toxicology studies or alter the trial design. In January 2008, the FDA placed a clinical hold on our Phase IIb clinical efficacy trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS due to concerns relating to previous toxicology studies of arimoclomol in rats. Although we have submitted additional information to the FDA regarding these concerns, we cannot predict how long it may take to resolve them. Depending on the outcome of the FDA’s review, we may be: 14 Table of Contents • required to conduct additional toxicology or human studies prior to or in parallel with the resumption of our clinical trial, which would result in substantial additional expenses and possible significant delays in completing the clinical trial; • required to alter the design including reducing the dosage of arimoclomol, of the clinical trial, which could significantly delay the completion of the trial, increase the cost of the trial, adversely affect our ability to demonstrate the efficacy of arimoclomol in the trial or cause us to cancel the trial altogether due to one or more of these consideration; or • prohibited by the FDA from resuming our current planned clinical trial or initiating any other clinical trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS or any other indication due to safety concerns. We also planned to commence a Phase II clinical trial for arimoclomol for stroke recovery in the second half of 2008. In light of the FDA’s concerns regarding toxicity of arimoclomol, our planned Phase I trial for this indication is subject to similar risks. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for arimoclomol or iroxanadine, these product candidates may not achieve market acceptance or be profitable. We do not expect to receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of arimoclomol or iroxanadine for several years, if at all. Even if we do receive regulatory approvals, the future commercial success of these drug candidates will depend, among other things, on their acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and other members of the medical community as therapeutic and cost-effective alternatives to commercially available products. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue our business. Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely effected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: they are “incidental” to a physician’s services, • they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice, • they are not excluded as immunizations, and • they have been approved by the FDA. Our current financial resources may be diminished if we elect to provide RXi with additional future funding. We have no obligation to provide any additional funding to RXi, but we might seek to do so in order to protect our investment in RXi if RXi is unable to obtain sufficient funding on its own or to maintain our relative ownership interest if RXi consummates a financing. If we provide RXi with any additional funding, we will have less funds available for our own business and operations. 15 Table of Contents We may rely upon third parties in connection with the commercialization of our products. We currently plan to continue the development of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS under our Master Agreement with Pharmaceutical Research Associates for clinical trials management services, and may retain the services of site management and clinical research organizations to help conduct our clinical trials. We may seek to complete the development of arimoclomol and market it ourselves if it is approved by the FDA. However, the completion of the development of arimoclomol and our other product candidates, as well as the marketing of these products, may require us to enter into strategic alliances, license agreements or other collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies under which those companies will be responsible for one or more aspects of the commercial development and eventual marketing of our products. Our products may not have sufficient potential commercial value to enable us to secure strategic arrangements with suitable companies on attractive terms, or at all. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements, we may not have the financial or other resources to complete the development of any of our products and may have to sell our rights in them to a third party or abandon their development altogether. To the extent we enter into collaborative arrangements, we will be dependent upon the timeliness and effectiveness of the development and marketing efforts of our contractual partners. If these companies do not allocate sufficient personnel and resources to these efforts or encounter difficulties in complying with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, we may not obtain regulatory approvals as planned, if at all, and the timing of receipt or the amount of revenue from these arrangements may be materially and adversely affected. By entering into these arrangements rather than completing the development and then marketing these products on our own, the profitability to us of these products may decline. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We believe that obtaining and maintaining patent and other intellectual property rights for our technologies and potential products is critical to establishing and maintaining the value of our assets and our business. We will be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we have rights to valid and enforceable patents or other proprietary rights that cover them. Although we have patents and patent applications directed to our molecular chaperone amplification technologies, these patents and applications may not prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies. In addition, our patents may be held to be invalid if challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the United States and in many foreign countries. The application and enforcement of patent laws and regulations in foreign countries is even more uncertain. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively file, protect or defend our proprietary rights on a consistent basis. In particular, the patents and patent applications related to our molecular chaperone amplification product candidates were issued or filed by third parties prior to the time we acquired rights to them, and they begin to expire in 2016. The validity, enforceability and ownership of those patents and patent applications may be challenged, and if a court decides that our patents are not valid, we will not have the right to stop others from using our inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents is upheld, a court may refuse to stop others on the ground that their activities do not infringe our patents. Any litigation brought by us to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition, make it more difficult for us to enter into strategic alliances with third parties to develop our products, or discourage our existing licensees from continuing their development work on our potential products. If our patent coverage is insufficient to prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies, the value of our assets is likely to be materially and adversely affected. We also rely on certain proprietary trade secrets and know-how, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and know-how are difficult to protect. Although we have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and some of our contractors, it is possible that these persons may disclose our trade secrets or know-how or that our competitors may independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets and know-how. 16 Table of Contents If our product candidates infringe the rights of others, we could be subject to expensive litigation or be required to obtain licenses from others to develop or market them. Our competitors or others may have patent rights that they choose to assert against us or our licensees, suppliers, customers or potential collaborators. Moreover, we may not know about patents or patent applications that our products would infringe. For example, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our arimoclomol, iroxanadine or other product candidates would infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming technology also claimed by us in issued patents or pending applications, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the US Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our foreign patent applications. If a third party claims that we infringe its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: • we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a competitor’s patent; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our product candidates or technology so that it does not infringe patent rights of others, which may not be possible or commercially feasible. If any of these events occurs, our business and prospects will suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline substantially. We have reported several material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we cannot maintain effective internal controls or provide reliable financial and other information, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports. In this Annual Report, we are reporting material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting related to failures on the part of our accounting personnel to follow established practices and procedures and a failure to keep current our legal database for contracts relating to our arimoclomol development program, which are described in more detail below under the heading “Controls and Procedures.” Additionally, within the past three years: • We identified a material weakness related to our accounting for an equity transaction by RXi and our tax withholding in connection with exercises of employee stock options. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 and extended the filing of our quarterly report for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. • We identified a material weakness related to our accounting for transactions at our former laboratory facility in Worcester, Massachusetts. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. • We improperly applied generally accepted accounting principles related to our accounting for deemed dividends incurred in connection with anti-dilution adjustments made to our outstanding warrants. This misapplication of accounting principles constituted a material weakness and caused us to twice restate our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, as well as restate our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. • We miscalculated pro forma employee stock option compensation figures disclosed in the footnotes to our financial statements. As a result, we restated our financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2005, June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 and for the year ended December 31, 2005. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we concluded in our quarterly reports for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007, that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of those dates. Disclosure controls generally include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We also recently filed an amendment to an SEC report to correct certain form errors. Effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot maintain effective internal controls or provide reliable financial or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our SEC reports, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer and we may become subject to litigation. We are subject to intense competition, and we may not compete successfully. We and our strategic partners or licensees may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid and significant technological advancements. Many companies, research institutions and universities are working in a number of areas similar to our primary fields of interest to develop new products. There also is intense competition among companies seeking to acquire products that already are being marketed. Many of the companies with which we compete have or are likely to have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us and at least some of our present or future strategic partners or licensees. As a result, these competitors may: • succeed in developing competitive products sooner than us or our strategic partners or licensees; • obtain FDA or foreign governmental approvals for their products before we can obtain approval of any of our products; • obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit the development and commercialization of our product candidate candidates; • develop products that are safer or more effective than our products; • devote greater resources than us to marketing or selling products; • introduce or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies and other scientific advances; • introduce products that render our products obsolete; • withstand price competition more successfully than us or our strategic partners or licensees; • negotiate third-party strategic alliances or licensing arrangements more effectively than us; and • take better advantage than us of other opportunities. We are aware of only one drug, Rilutek, which was developed by Aventis Pharma AG, that has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of ALS. Many companies are working to develop pharmaceuticals to treat ALS, including Aeolus Pharmaceuticals, Celgene Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Ono Pharmaceuticals, Trophos SA, Knopp Neurosciences Inc., Faust Pharmaceuticals SA, Oxford BioMedica plc, Phytopharm plc and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., as well as RXi. ALS patients often take over-the-counter supplements, including vitamin E, creatine and coenzyme Q10, or drugs such as lithium that are approved for other indications. ALS belongs to a family of neurodegenerative diseases that includes Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and Huntington’s diseases. Due to similarities between these diseases, a new treatment for one such disease potentially could be useful for treating others. There are many companies producing and developing drugs used to treat neurodegenerative diseases other than ALS, including Amgen, Inc., Biogen Idec, Boehringer Ingelheim, Cephalon, Inc., Ceregene, Inc., Elan Pharmaceuticals, plc, Forest Laboratories, Inc., H. Lundbeck A/S, Phytopharm plc, UCB Group and Wyeth. 18 Table of Contents Current drug classes used to treat stroke include antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, salycylates, neuroprotectants and thrombolytic agents. Prescription antiplatelet agents include Aggrenox by Boehringer Ingelheim, Plavix by Sanofi-Aventis and Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Ticlid by Roche Pharmaceuticals. Coumadin by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Jantoven by Upsher-Smith Laboratories are branded forms of warfarin, an anticoagulant. Moreover, Salicylates, like aspirin, are commonly used to treat patients after stroke. In Europe, Ferrer Grupo markets the neroprotectant, Somazina. Activase, also known as tissue plasminogen activator, or t-PA, is a thrombolytic agent marketed by Genentech. Many new drug candidates are in development by pharmaceutical and biotech companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, Indeveus Pharmaceuticals, Ipsen, Merck & Co., Neurobiological Technologies, Ono Pharmaceuticals, PAION AG and Wyeth. In addition to drug therapy, companies such as Medtronic and Northstar Neurosciences are developing neurostimulation medical devices to aid in recovery after stroke. The wound care market is highly competitive, and there are many products available for treating skin wounds, including diabetic foot ulcers. Prescription and over-the-counter products for the prevention and treatment of infections include topical anti-infectives, such as Betadine, silver sulfadiazine, hydrogen peroxide, Dakin’s solution and hypochlorous acid, and topical antibiotics, such as Neosporine, Mupirocin and Bacitracin. Skin substitute products include Apligraf, manufactured by Organogenesis, Inc., which is an FDA-cleared product using human dermal and epidermal cells placed on a collagen matrix, for the treatment of both venous stasis and diabetic foot ulcers, and Dermagraft, produced by Advanced BioHealing, Inc., which uses human derived dermal cells placed on a polyglactin matrix and is FDA cleared to treat diabetic foot ulcers. In addition, a number of companies are working to develop proprietary pharmaceuticals and cell-based therapies to treat diabetic wound healing, including Agennix, Inc., BioSyntech, Inc., CardioVascular BioTherapeutics, Inc., Cardium Therapeutics, Inc., Genentech Inc., KeraCure, Inc., King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., MacroChem Corporation, Oculus Innovative Sciences, Inc., Rovi Pharmaceutical Laboratories, SanuWave, Inc. and Wyeth. Most of our competitors have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. We may be required to pay milestone and other payments relating to the commercialization of our products. Our agreement by which we acquired rights to arimoclomol and our other molecular chaperone amplification product candidates provides for milestone payments by us upon the occurrence of certain regulatory filings and approvals related to the acquired products. In the event that we successfully develop arimoclomol or any of these other product candidates, these milestone payments could aggregate as much as $3.7 million, with the most significant payments due upon the first commercialization of any of these products. In addition, our agreement with the ALS Charitable Remainder Trust requires us to pay a one-percent royalty interest on worldwide sales of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS. Also, any future license, collaborative or other agreements we may enter into in connection with our development and commercialization activities may require us to pay significant milestone, license and other payments in the future. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product supplies. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our product candidates, including arimoclomol or iroxanadine. Accordingly, we are dependent upon contract manufacturers, or potential future strategic alliance partners, to manufacture these supplies. We have manufacturing supply arrangements in place with respect to a portion of the clinical supplies needed for the Phase II clinical program for arimoclomol for ALS and stroke recovery and for iroxanadine for diabetic ulcers. However, we have no supply arrangements for the commercial manufacture of these product candidates or any manufacturing supply arrangements for any other potential product candidates, and we may not be able to secure needed supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our products or to commercialize them. We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products or, if we obtain marketing approval and commercialize our products, by patients using our commercially marketed products. Even if the commercialization of one or more of our products is approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We currently do not carry product liability insurance covering the commercial marketing of our product candidates. We obtained clinical trial insurance for our Phase IIa clinical trial and Phase IIb efficacy trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS, and we plan to seek to obtain similar insurance for any other clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we may market. However, we may not be able to obtain additional insurance in the amounts we seek, if at all. In addition, any insurance maintained by us or our licensees may not prove adequate in the event of a claim against us. Even 19 Table of Contents if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management’s attention from our operations, and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims. We may be unable to acquire products approved for marketing. In the future, we may seek to acquire products from third parties that already are being marketed or have been approved for marketing. We have not currently identified any of these products, however, and we do not have any prior experience in acquiring or marketing products and may need to find third parties to market any products that we might acquire. We may also seek to acquire products through a merger with one or more companies that own such products. In any such merger, the owners of our merger partner could be issued or hold a substantial, or even controlling, amount of stock in our company or, in the event that the other company is the surviving company, in that other company. We use hazardous materials and must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including biological hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. We could incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Risks Associated With Our Investment in RXi The distribution of RXi common stock to our stockholders will be taxable to us. On March 11, 2008, we distributed to our stockholders a total of approximately 4,526,624 shares of RXi common stock. We will recognize gain for income tax purposes on the distribution of shares of RXi common stock in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the stock distributed over our basis. This gain will be included in determining whether we have current year earnings and profits subject to taxation. Although we will ascribe a value to RXi shares in the distribution for tax purposes, our valuation will not be binding on the Internal Revenue Service or any state taxation agency, which could ascribe a different valuation to the distributed RXi shares. Based upon our anticipated loss from operations for 2008 and currently available loss carryforwards, we expect to pay no taxes in connection with the distribution. Our ownership interest in RXi may be diluted. RXi has indicated that it has sufficient working capital to fund its currently planned expenditures into the second quarter of 2009. RXi also anticipates that it will need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of its business. Under our agreement with RXi and its other current stockholders, with some exceptions, we will have preemptive rights to acquire a portion of any new securities sold or issued by RXi so as to maintain our percentage ownership of RXi. Depending upon the terms and provisions of any proposed sale of new securities by RXi, our financial condition and other factors, we may be unwilling or unable to exercise our preemptive rights. If RXi raises funds through the issuance of additional equity securities, therefore, our percentage ownership interest in RXi may be diluted. We may be required to dispose of some of our remaining RXi shares, and may not be able to do so on attractive terms. As of March 11, 2008, we owned approximately 6,268,881 shares of common stock of RXi, or approximately 49% of the outstanding RXi common stock. We may be deemed to be an “investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and become subject to the stringent regulations applicable to investment companies, if at any time we own or propose to acquire investment securities having a value that exceeds 40% of our total assets. Any RXi shares held by us will generally constitute investment securities, and accordingly, if the value of the RXi’s shares we own at any time, when taken together with the value of any other investment securities we then hold, approaches 40% of the value of our assets, then we would likely seek to sell or otherwise dispose of some of our RXi shares in order to avoid becoming an inadvertent investment company. 20 Table of Contents If it becomes necessary or advisable for us to sell our RXi shares, we may have to sell RXi shares pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which includes certain manner of sale and volume limitations, or negotiate private sales with third parties who are willing to buy those shares. We may be unable to sell or divest of RXi shares at attractive prices, if at all. In addition, any sales or other disposition of RXi shares by us, or the possibility of such sales or disposition, could adversely affect the market price of our RXi shares. RXi retains discretion over its use of the funds that we have provided to it. All funds previously provided by us to RXi may be used by RXi in any manner its management deems appropriate. None of these uses may yield a significant or any return at all for RXi stockholders, including us. We do not and will not control RXi, and the officers, directors and other RXi stockholders may have interests that are different from ours. Although we currently own a significant portion of RXi’s outstanding common stock, we do not control its management or operations. RXi has its own board of directors and management, who are responsible for the affairs and policies of RXi and its development plans. We have entered into letter agreements with the University of Massachusetts Medical School, or UMMS, RXi and RXi’s other founding stockholders under which we agree to vote our shares of RXi common stock for the election of directors of RXi and to take other actions to ensure that a majority of RXi’s board of directors are independent of us. The other stockholders of RXi may have interests that are different from ours, and RXi may engage in actions in connection with its business and operations that we believe are not in our best interests. Products developed by RXi could eventually compete with our products for ALS, type 2 diabetes, obesity and other disease indications. RXi is focusing its initial efforts on developing an RNAi therapeutics for the treatment of a specific form of ALS caused by a defect in the SOD1 gene. Although we are developing arimoclomol for treatment for all forms of ALS, it is possible that products developed by RXi for the treatment of ALS could compete with ALS products that we may develop. RXi also plans to pursue the development of RNAi therapeutics for the treatment of other neurodegenerative diseases and type 2 diabetes, which could compete with products that we may develop for the treatment of these diseases. The potential commercial success of any products that we may develop for these and other diseases may be adversely affected by competing products that RXi may develop. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our anti-takeover provisions may make it more difficult to change our management, or may discourage others from acquiring us, and thereby adversely affect stockholder value. We have a stockholder rights plan and provisions in our bylaws that are intended to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. These provisions may discourage or prevent a person or group from acquiring us without the approval of our board of directors, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have a classified board of directors, which means that at least two stockholder meetings, instead of one, will be required to effect a change in the majority control of our board of directors. This applies to every election of directors, not just an election occurring after a change in control. The classification of our board increases the amount of time it takes to change majority control of our board of directors and may cause potential acquirers to lose interest in a potential purchase of us, regardless of whether our purchase would be beneficial to us or our stockholders. The additional time and cost to change a majority of the members of our board of directors makes it more difficult and may discourage our existing stockholders from seeking to change our existing management in order to change the strategic direction or operational performance of our company. Our bylaws provide that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors. This provision prevents stockholders from removing any incumbent director without cause. Our bylaws also provide that a stockholder must give us at least 120 days notice of a proposal or director nomination that such stockholder desires to present at any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders. Such provision prevents a stockholder from making a proposal or director nomination at a stockholder meeting without us having advance notice of that proposal or director nomination. This could make a change in control more difficult by providing our directors 21 Table of Contents with more time to prepare an opposition to a proposed change in control. By making it more difficult to remove or install new directors, these bylaw provisions may also make our existing management less responsive to the views of our stockholders with respect to our operations and other issues such as management selection and management compensation. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may also prevent or delay a takeover of us that may be beneficial to you. Our outstanding options and warrants and the availability for resale of our shares issued in our private financings may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 19.0 million shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $2.00 per share. Our outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions, since the holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when we may be able to obtain additional capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than the terms of outstanding options and warrants. For the life of the options and warrants, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants will also dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Many of our outstanding warrants contain anti-dilution provisions pertaining to dividends or distributions with respect to our common stock. Our outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 1.5 million shares also contain anti-dilution provisions that are triggered upon any issuance of securities by us below the prevailing market price of our common stock, and our outstanding warrants to purchase approximately 11.5 million shares contain anti-dilution provisions that are triggered upon any dividend of cash or property, including our recent distribution to our stockholders of approximately 36% of the common stock of RXi on March 11, 2008 that will require us to reduce the exercise price of those warrants. In the event that these anti-dilution provisions are triggered by us in the future, we would be required to reduce the exercise price, and increase the number of shares underlying, those warrants, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have registered with the SEC the resale by the holders of all or substantially all shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options and warrants. The availability of these shares for public resale, as well as actual resales of these shares, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, sinking fund provisions, and restrictions on our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. We may experience volatility in our stock price, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.87 to $5.49 per share since January 1, 2006, and it may continue to experience significant volatility from time to time. Factors such as the following may affect such volatility: • announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners; • changes in our ownership of or other relationships with RXi; • our quarterly operating results; • litigation involving or affecting us; • shortfalls in our actual financial results compared to our guidance or the forecasts of stock market analysts; • developments in patent or other technology ownership rights; 22 Table of Contents • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • public concern regarding the safety of our products; and • government regulation of drug pricing. Other factors which may affect our stock price are general changes in the economy, the financial markets or the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment in our common stock except to the extent of any appreciation in the value of our common stock. Our common stock may not appreciate in value, or may decline in value. 