Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Associated With Our Business We have operated at a loss and will likely continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. We have operated at a loss due to our ongoing expenditures for research and development of our product candidates and for general and administrative purposes and lack of significant recurring revenue. We incurred a net loss of $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, a net profit of $0.4 million, attributable to gain from the sale of RXi shares and other marketable securities, for the year ended December 31, 2010, and a net loss of $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, including gain from the sale of RXi shares. We had an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2011 of approximately $210.9 million. We are likely to continue to incur losses unless and until we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict when we may become profitable, if at all. If we do not become profitable or are unable to maintain future profitability, the market value of our common stock will be adversely affected. Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. On February 15, 2012, we received a written notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") stating that because we had not regained compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing, as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), our securities would be subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market unless we requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Hearings Panel on or before February 22, 2012. We have requested and have been granted a hearing before the panel, which has stayed any delisting action in connection with the notification letter, and which allows the continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market until the panel renders a decision subsequent to the hearing. At the hearing, we intend to present a plan to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and request that the panel allow us additional time within which to regain compliance. There can be no assurance that the panel will grant our request for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or that our plans to exercise diligent efforts to maintain the listing of its securities on NASDAQ will be successful. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, we expect prices for our common stock to be quoted on the Pink Sheets LLC or the OTC Bulletin Board. There is no assurance, however, that prices for our common stock would be quoted on one of these other trading systems or that an active trading market for our common stock would thereafter exist, which would materially and adversely impact the market value of our common stock. Because we have no source of significant recurring revenue, we must depend on financing to sustain our operations. Developing products and conducting clinical trials require substantial amounts of capital. To date, we have relied primarily upon proceeds from sales of our equity securities, sales of our shares of common stock of our former RXi subsidiary, and the exercise of options and warrants to generate funds needed to finance our business and operations. We will need to raise additional capital to, among other things: · fund our clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our existing and possible future product candidates; · expand our research and development activities; · finance our general and administrative expenses; · acquire or license new technologies; · prepare, file, prosecute, maintain, enforce and defend our patent and other proprietary rights; and · develop and implement sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to successfully commercialize any product for which we obtain marketing approval and choose to market ourselves. 14 Our revenues were $0.3 million, $0.1 million and $9.5 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our revenues in 2009 included $9.4 million of deferred revenue recognized from our sale in August 2006 of a one-percent royalty interest in worldwide sales of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS to the privately funded ALS Charitable Remainder Trust, or ALSCRT. Pursuant to an amendment signed between us and the beneficiary of the ALSCRT on August 6, 2009, we were released from all restrictions on the use of any proceeds previously paid to us in connection with the arrangement. As a result, we recognized $6.7 million as service revenue in the third quarter of 2009, which represented the remaining deferred revenue and previously un-recognized portion of the value received. We will have no significant recurring revenue unless we are able to commercialize one or more of our product candidates in development, which may require us to first enter into license or other strategic arrangements with third parties. At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $18.0 million and marketable securities of $18.1 million. Management believes that our current resources will be sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. The belief is based, in part, upon our currently projected expenditures for 2012 of approximately $23.7 million, which includes approximately $7.0 million for our clinical programs for INNO-206, approximately $5.3 million for our clinical program for tamibarotene, approximately $0.4 million for our clinical programs for bafetinib, approximately $4.5 million for general operation of our clinical programs, and approximately $6.5 million for other general and administrative expenses. These projected expenditures are based upon numerous assumptions and subject to many uncertainties, and our actual expenditures may be significantly different from these projections. If we obtain marketing approval as currently planned and successfully commercialize our product candidates, we anticipate it will take a minimum of several years, and likely longer, for us to generate significant recurring revenue, and we will be dependent on future financing until such time, if ever, as we can generate significant recurring revenue. Our ability to raise capital may be adversely affected by the weak economic recovery in the U.S. We have no commitments from third parties to provide us with any additional financing, and we may not be able to obtain future financing on favorable terms, or at all. Failure to obtain adequate financing would adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to stockholders may result and new investors could have rights superior to holders of the shares issued in this offering. In addition, debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. If adequate funds are not available to us, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets or to delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate some portion or all of our development programs or clinical trials. We also may have to license to other companies our product candidates or technologies that we would prefer to develop and commercialize ourselves. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we estimate, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and our business prospects may suffer. Our financial projections also may prove to be materially inaccurate. From time to time, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings such as the discussion in this Annual Report of the expected timing of certain milestones relating to our INNO-206, tamibarotene and bafetinib clinical development programs. We also may disclose projected expenditures or other forecasts for future periods such as the statements above in this Annual Report supplement regarding our current projected expenditures for fiscal year 2012. These and other financial projections are based on management’s current expectations and do not contain any margin of error or cushion for any specific uncertainties, or for the uncertainties inherent in all financial forecasting. The actual timing of milestones and actual expenditures or other financial results can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet milestones or financial projections as announced from time to time, the development and commercialization of our products may be delayed and our business prospects may suffer. The assumptions management has used to produce these projections may significantly change or prove to be inaccurate. Accordingly, you should not unduly rely on any of these financial projections. 15 If our products are not successfully developed and approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities, we may be forced to reduce or curtail our operations. All of our product candidates in development must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or corresponding foreign governmental agencies, before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA and foreign government approvals is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically includes the conduct of extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, including post-approval testing, which may take longer or cost more than we or our licensees, if any, anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these product candidates may not necessarily be predictive of the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our product development efforts, including the following: · difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; · requirements for clinical trial design imposed by the FDA; · unexpected adverse reactions by patients in trials; · difficulty in obtaining clinical supplies of the product; · changes in or our inability to comply with FDA or foreign governmental product testing, manufacturing or marketing requirements; · regulatory inspections of clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us or our manufacturers or licensees to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate the affected clinical trials if investigators find them not to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements; · inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the safety and efficacy of the product being tested; · modification of the product during testing; and · reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs. It is possible that none of the product candidates we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them. The time required to obtain FDA and foreign governmental approvals is unpredictable, but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the product candidate. Any analysis we perform on data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our products and the manufacturing facilities used to produce them will be subject to continual review, including periodic inspections and mandatory post- approval clinical trials by the FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals or to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular product candidate. The failure to comply with any post-approval regulatory requirements also could result in the rescission of the related regulatory approvals or the suspension of sales of the offending product. Our current and planned clinical trials of our product candidates may fail to show that these product candidates are clinically safe and effective, or that they are better than alternative treatments. INNO-206 was no more toxic than free doxorubicin in a Phase 1 clinical trial and showed limited biological responses against certain tumors. However, these conclusions may not be reproducible in larger clinical trials, including the ongoing Phase 1b/2 and Phase 2b clinical trials of INNO-206 as a treatment for soft tissue sarcomas. 16 Tamibarotene has been shown to be safe, well-tolerated, and efficacious in the Japanese APL population. However, it is possible that the response to the drug may be different in American or European populations. Furthermore, the efficacy studies that led to approval in Japan occurred prior to the advent of the use of arsenic trioxide, or ATO, for second-line therapy. It is possible that the current use of ATO could alter the safety or efficacy of tamibarotene. The FDA might not accept the Japanese studies as a database for safety in the U.S.. The majority of patients treated with ATRA as a first-line therapy way generally experience a complete remission of disease. As a result of the limited population of patients requiring third-line treatment for APL, there is no assurance that we will be successful in recruiting a sufficient number of patients into our ongoing clinical trial of tamibarotene as a third-line treatment for APL in order to demonstrate efficacy. Any FDA-required changes to our clinical development strategy could delay or increase the cost of the trial, adversely affect our ability to demonstrate the efficacy of tamibarotene in the trial or cause us not to pursue clinical development of tamibarotene for one or more of these considerations. Tamibarotene has never been tested in human clinical trials in patients with NSCLC, and there are no assurances that it will be effective in that indication. Bafetinib demonstrated clinical responses in patients with CML in a Phase 1 clinical trial conducted in patients with CML and other leukemias that have a certain mutation called the Philadelphia Chromosome (Ph+) and are intolerant of or resistant to Gleevec and, in some cases, second-line tyrosine kinase inhibitors. However, bafetinib has never been tested in human clinical trials in patients with B-CLL, and there are no assurances that it will be effective in that indication. Even if our current trials are successful, subsequent trials may not yield statistically significant data indicating that these product candidates are clinically effective. Accordingly, we, or any development partners, may ultimately be unable to provide the FDA with satisfactory data on clinical safety and efficacy sufficient to obtain FDA approval of INNO-206, tamibarotene or bafetinib for any indications. We will rely upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical product supplies. We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our product candidates. Accordingly, we are dependent upon third-party manufacturers, or potential future strategic alliance partners, to manufacture these supplies. We have manufacturing supply arrangements in place with respect to a portion of the clinical supplies needed for the clinical development programs for INNO-206, tamibarotene and bafetinib. However, we have no supply arrangements for the commercial manufacture of these product candidates or any manufacturing supply arrangements for any other potential product candidates, and we may not be able to secure needed supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our products or to commercialize them. If our product candidates cannot be manufactured in suitable quantities and in accordance with regulatory standards, our clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing efforts for such products may be delayed. Such delays could adversely affect our competitive position and our chances of generating significant recurring revenues. If our products cannot be manufactured at an acceptable cost, the commercial success of our products may be adversely affected. We may rely upon third parties in connection with the commercialization of our products. The completion of the development of INNO-206, tamibarotene and bafetinib, as well as the marketing of these products, may require us to enter into strategic alliances, license agreements or other collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies under which those companies will be responsible for one or more aspects of the commercial development and eventual marketing of our products. Our products may not have sufficient potential commercial value to enable us to secure strategic arrangements with suitable companies on attractive terms, or at all. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements, we may not have the financial or other resources to complete the development of any of our products and may have to sell our rights in them to a third party or abandon their development altogether. To the extent we enter into collaborative arrangements, we will be dependent upon the timeliness and effectiveness of the development and marketing efforts of our contractual partners. If these companies do not allocate sufficient personnel and resources to these efforts or encounter difficulties in complying with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, we may not obtain regulatory approvals as planned, if at all, and the timing of receipt or the amount of revenue from these arrangements may be materially and adversely affected. By entering into these arrangements rather than completing the development and then marketing these products on our own, the profitability to us of these products may decline. 17 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We believe that obtaining and maintaining patent and other intellectual property rights for our technologies and potential products is critical to establishing and maintaining the value of our assets and our business. We will be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we have rights to valid and enforceable patents or other proprietary rights that cover them. Although we have rights to patents and patent applications directed to INNO-206, tamibarotene and bafetinib, these patents and applications may not prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies. In addition, our patents may be held to be invalid if challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. and in many foreign countries. The application and enforcement of patent laws and regulations in foreign countries is even more uncertain. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively file, protect or defend our proprietary rights on a consistent basis. Many of the patents and patent applications on which we rely were issued or filed by third parties prior to the time we acquired rights to them. The validity, enforceability and ownership of those patents and patent applications may be challenged, and if a court decides that our patents are not valid, we will not have the right to stop others from using our inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents is upheld, a court may refuse to stop others on the ground that their activities do not infringe our patents. Any litigation brought by us to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition, make it more difficult for us to enter into strategic alliances with third parties to develop our products, or discourage our existing licensees from continuing their development work on our potential products. If our patent coverage is insufficient to prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies, the value of our assets is likely to be materially and adversely affected. We also rely on certain proprietary trade secrets and know-how, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets and know-how are difficult to protect. Although we have taken measures to protect our unpatented trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and some of our contractors, it is possible that these persons may disclose our trade secrets or know-how or that our competitors may independently develop or otherwise discover our trade secrets and know-how. If our product candidates infringe the rights of others, we could be subject to expensive litigation or be required to obtain licenses from others to develop or market them. Our competitors or others may have patent rights that they choose to assert against us or our licensees, suppliers, customers or potential collaborators. Moreover, we may not know about patents or patent applications that our products would infringe. For example, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our product candidates would infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming technology also claimed by us or our licensors in issued patents or pending applications, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our foreign patent applications. If a third party claims that we infringe its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: · we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; · we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes a competitor’s patent; · a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and · we may have to redesign our product candidates or technology so that it does not infringe patent rights of others, which may not be possible or commercially feasible. If any of these events occurs, our business and prospects will suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline substantially. 18 Any drugs we develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to sell our products primarily to hospitals which receive reimbursement for the health care services they provide to their patients from third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other domestic and international government programs, private insurance plans and managed care programs. Most third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that a medical product was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payors also may refuse to reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. Furthermore, because our programs are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices, and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. We currently expect that any drugs we develop may need to be administered under the supervision of a physician. Under currently applicable law, drugs that are not usually self-administered may be eligible for coverage by the Medicare program if: · they are “incidental” to a physician’s services, · they are “reasonable and necessary” for the diagnosis or treatment of the illness or injury for which they are administered according to accepted standard of medical practice, · they are not excluded as immunizations, and · they have been approved by the FDA. We are subject to intense competition, and we may not compete successfully We and our strategic partners or licensees may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid and significant technological advancements. Many companies, research institutions and universities are working in a number of areas similar to our primary fields of interest to develop new products. There also is intense competition among companies seeking to acquire products that already are being marketed. Many of the companies with which we compete have or are likely to have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us and at least some of our present or future strategic partners or licensees. As a result, these competitors may: · succeed in developing competitive products sooner than us or our strategic partners or licensees; · obtain FDA or foreign governmental approvals for their products before we can obtain approval of any of our products; · obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit the development and commercialization of our product candidate candidates; · develop products that are safer or more effective than our products; · devote greater resources than us to marketing or selling products; · introduce or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies and other scientific advances; · introduce products that render our products obsolete; 19 · withstand price competition more successfully than us or our strategic partners or licensees; · negotiate third-party strategic alliances or licensing arrangements more effectively than us; and · take better advantage than us of other opportunities. For a more detailed discussion of the competition we face, see “Business – Competition,” above. We will be required to pay substantial milestone and other payments relating to the commercialization of our products. The agreement relating to our worldwide rights to INNO-206 provides for our payment of an aggregate of $7.5 million upon meeting specified clinical and regulatory milestones up to and including the product’s second final marketing approval. We also will be obliged to pay: · commercially reasonable royalties based on a percentage of net sales (as defined in the agreement); · a percentage of non-royalty sub-licensing income (as defined in the agreement); and · milestones of $1,000,000 for each additional final marketing approval that we might obtain. The agreements under which we have North American and European rights to tamibarotene provide for our payment of royalties based on net sales of any products, as well as aggregate payments of ¥ 490 million for North America and ¥ 480 million for Europe upon meeting specified clinical, regulatory and sales milestones up to and including the first commercial sale of tamibarotene for the treatment of APL. Our agreement relating to our worldwide (except Japan) rights to bafetinib provides for our payment of an aggregate of $13.35 million (including $5 million upon the product’s initial final marketing approval) upon the achievement of specified clinical and regulatory milestones up to and including approvals in the U.S. and Europe. We also will be obliged to pay: · commercially reasonable royalties based on a percentage of net sales (as defined in the agreement), dependent on reaching certain revenue thresholds; · annual minimum payments if sales of bafetinib do not meet specified levels; and · a percentage of non-royalty sub-licensing income (as defined in the agreement). If we are required to pay any third party in order to exercise our rights under the agreement, we will deduct a percentage of those payments from the royalties due under the agreement, up to an agreed-upon cap. Under the merger agreement by which we acquired Innovive, we agreed to pay the former Innovive stockholders a total of up to approximately $18.3 million of future earnout merger consideration, subject to our achievement of specified net sales under the Innovive license agreements. The earnout merger consideration, if any, will be payable in shares of our common stock, subject to specified conditions, or, at our election, in cash or by a combination of shares of our common stock and cash. Our common stock will be valued for purposes of any future earnout merger consideration based upon the trading price of our common stock at the time the earnout merger consideration is paid. We are subject to potential liabilities from clinical testing and future product liability claims. If any of our products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products or, if we obtain marketing approval and commercialize our products, by patients using our commercially marketed products. Even if the if one or more of our products is approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We maintain clinical trial insurance for our ongoing clinical trials, and we plan to seek to obtain similar insurance for any other clinical trials that we conduct. We also would seek to obtain product liability insurance covering the commercial marketing of our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain additional insurance, however, and any insurance obtained by us may prove inadequate in the event of a claim against us. Any claims asserted against us also may divert management’s attention from our operations, and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims even if they are unsuccessful. 20 We may be unable to successfully acquire additional technologies or products. If we require additional technologies or products, our product development plans may change and the ownership interests of our shareholders could be diluted. We may seek to acquire additional technologies by licensing or purchasing such technologies, or through a merger or acquisition of one or more companies that own such technologies. We have no current understanding or agreement to acquire any technologies, however, and we may not be able to identify or successfully acquire any additional technologies. We also may seek to acquire products from third parties that already are being marketed or have been approved for marketing, although we have not currently identified any of these products. We do not have any prior experience in acquiring or marketing products approved for marketing and may need to find third parties to market any products that we might acquire. We have focused our product development efforts on our oncology drug candidates, which we believe have the greatest revenue potential. If we acquire additional technologies or product candidates, we may determine to make further changes to our product development plans and business strategy to capitalize on opportunities presented by the new technologies and product candidates. We may determine to issue shares of our common stock to acquire additional technologies or products or in connection with a merger or acquisition of another company. To the extent we do so, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted accordingly. We are conducting certain of our clinical trials in foreign countries, which exposes us to additional risks. We are conducting international clinical development of INNO-206 and tamibarotene. The conduct of clinical trials outside the United States could have a significant impact on us. Risks inherent in conducting international clinical trials include: · foreign regulatory requirements that could restrict or limit our ability to conduct our clinical trials; · administrative burdens of conducting clinical trials under multiple foreign regulatory schema; · foreign exchange fluctuations; · diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and · possible nationalization and expropriation. In addition, there may be changes to our business and political position if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease, which could seriously harm the development of our current operating strategy. In the event of a dispute regarding our international clinical trials, it may be necessary for us to resolve the dispute in the foreign county of dispute, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However, in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate in any foreign country, we would be faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are familiar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen expenses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in a foreign country. 21 Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our anti-takeover measures may make it more difficult to change our management, or may discourage others from acquiring us, and thereby adversely affect stockholder value. We have a stockholder rights plan and provisions in our bylaws that are intended to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. These provisions may discourage or prevent a person or group from acquiring us without the approval of our board of directors, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have a classified board of directors, which means that at least two stockholder meetings, instead of one, will be required to effect a change in the majority control of our board of directors. This applies to every election of directors, not just an election occurring after a change in control. The classification of our board increases the amount of time it takes to change majority control of our board of directors and may cause potential acquirers to lose interest in a potential purchase of us, regardless of whether our purchase would be beneficial to us or our stockholders. The additional time and cost to change a majority of the members of our board of directors makes it more difficult and may discourage our existing stockholders from seeking to change our existing management in order to change the strategic direction or operational performance of our company. Our bylaws provide that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors. This provision prevents stockholders from removing any incumbent director without cause. Our bylaws also provide that a stockholder must give us at least 120 days notice of a proposal or director nomination that such stockholder desires to present at any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders. Such provision prevents a stockholder from making a proposal or director nomination at a stockholder meeting without us having advance notice of that proposal or director nomination. This could make a change in control more difficult by providing our directors with more time to prepare an opposition to a proposed change in control. By making it more difficult to remove or install new directors, these bylaw provisions may also make our existing management less responsive to the views of our stockholders with respect to our operations and other issues such as management selection and management compensation. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may also prevent or delay a takeover of us that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our outstanding options and warrants and the availability for resale of our shares issued in our private financings may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 65.1 million shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $0.78 per share. Our outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions, since the holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when we may be able to obtain additional capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than the terms of outstanding options and warrants. For the life of the options and warrants, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants will also dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Many of our outstanding warrants contain anti-dilution provisions pertaining to dividends with respect to our common stock. In the event that these anti-dilution provisions are triggered by us in the future, we would likewise be required to reduce the exercise price, and increase the number of shares underlying, those warrants, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have registered with the SEC the resale by the holders of all or substantially all shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding options and warrants. The availability of these shares for public resale, as well as actual resales of these shares, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, sinking fund provisions, and restrictions on our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. 22 We may experience volatility in our stock price, which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.26 to $1.05 per share since January 1, 2011, and it may continue to experience significant volatility from time to time. Factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include the following: · announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors; · changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners; · our quarterly operating results; · litigation involving or affecting us; · shortfalls in our actual financial results compared to our guidance or the forecasts of stock market analysts; · developments in patent or other technology ownership rights; · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · public concern regarding the safety of our products; and · government regulation of drug pricing. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment in our common stock except to the extent of any appreciation in the value of our common stock. Our common stock may not appreciate in value, or may decline in value. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 