Item 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occur, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. You should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Associated With Our Business We Have Operated at a Loss and Will Likely Continue to Operate at a Loss For the Foreseeable Future We have operated at a loss due to our lack of significant recurring revenue and substantial expenditures for research and development on our products and for general and administrative expenses. We incurred net losses of $16.8 million, $15.1 million and $16.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $139.6 million as of December 31, 2006. We are likely to continue to incur losses unless and until, if ever, we are able to commercialize one or more of our products and generate significant recurring revenue. We Have No Source of Significant Recurring Revenue, Which Makes Us Dependent on Financing to Sustain Our Operations Our revenue was $2.1 million, $184,000 and $428,000 during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Of the $2.1 million of revenues recognized in 2006, $1.8 million represented revenue recognized related to our sale to the ALS Charitable Remainder Trust of a one-percent royalty interest in worldwide sales of arimoclomol. We will not have other significant recurring revenue until at least one of the following occurs: • We are able to commercialize one or more of our products in development, which may require us to first enter into license or other arrangements with third parties. • One or more of our licensed products is commercialized by our licensees, thereby generating royalty revenue for us. • We are able to acquire products from third parties that are already being marketed or are approved for marketing. We have relied primarily upon selling equity securities and upon proceeds received upon the exercise of options and warrants and, to a much lesser extent, upon payments from our strategic partners and licensees, to generate funds needed to finance our business and operations. At December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $30.4 million, and as of March 23, 2007, we had received approximately $11.0 million in connection with the exercise of warrants and options since December 31, 2006. We believe that we have adequate financial resources to support our currently planned level of operations into the first quarter of 2009, which expectation is based in part on projected expenditures for 2007 of: $6.5 million for our Phase IIb trial for arimoclomol for ALS and related studies, $3.9 million for our other ongoing and planned preclinical programs, $8.8 million for general and administrative expenses, and $1.6 million to provide interim funding for RXi’s first few months of operations. We estimate RXi will expend approximately $6.2 million on development activities for 2007 (including approximately $400,000 in payments under agreements with UMMS, $3.2 million in other research and development expenses and $2.6 million in general and administrative expenses). If, in addition to the interim funding for which we have already budgeted, we elect to provide RXi with all or a substantial portion of its initial funding for 2007 and beyond in the coming few months, and if we are unable to raise funds in the future to replenish any amounts that we provide to RXi, our current working capital will be depleted accordingly. We anticipate it will take a minimum of three years and possibly longer for us to generate recurring revenue, and we will be dependent on obtaining future financing until such time, if ever, as we can generate significant recurring revenue. We have no commitments from third parties to provide us with any additional future financing, and may not be able to obtain future financing on 16 Table of Contents favorable terms, or at all. A lack of needed financing might force us to reduce the scope of our long-term business plans. Our Current Financial Resources May Be Diminished If We Elect To Provide RXi with Initial Financing In order to retain the 2007 UMMS licenses and effectuate the new UMMS invention disclosure agreement, RXi is required to obtain significant funding in the coming few months. If we elect to provide RXi with all or a substantial portion of the initial funding, our current working capital will be depleted accordingly. As of March 23, 2007, we had received approximately $11.0 million in connection with the exercise of outstanding options and warrants since December 31, 2006, but there is no assurance that we will receive similar amounts from future exercises of options and warrants or be able to raise funds in the future to replenish any amounts that we provide to RXi. Failure to raise funds to replenish our funding or RXi could materially and adversely affect our ability to continue the development of our other technologies. We Will Be Reliant Upon Third Parties for the Development and Eventual Marketing of Our Products Our business plan is to enter into strategic alliances, license agreements or other collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies under which those companies will be responsible for the commercial development and eventual marketing of our products. Although we plan to continue the development of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS and may market it ourselves if it is approved by the FDA, the completion of the development of our current product candidates, as well as the manufacture and marketing of these products, will likely require us to enter into strategic arrangements with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. There can be no assurance that any of our products will have sufficient potential commercial value to enable us to secure strategic arrangements with suitable companies on attractive terms, or at all. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements, we may not have the financial or other resources to complete the development of any of our products. We do not have a commercial relationship with the company that provided an adjuvant for the vaccine for the Phase I clinical trial conducted by UMMS and Advanced BioScience Laboratories on an HIV vaccine candidate that utilizes a technology that we licensed from UMMS. If we are not able to enter into such a relationship, we may be unable to use some or all of the results of the clinical trial as part of our clinical data for obtaining FDA approval of this vaccine, which will delay the development of the vaccine. If we enter into collaborative arrangements, we will be dependent upon the timeliness and effectiveness of the development and marketing efforts of our contractual partners. If these companies do not allocate sufficient personnel and resources to these efforts or encounter difficulties in complying with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, the timing of receipt or amount of revenue from these arrangements may be materially and adversely affected. By entering into these arrangements rather than completing the development and then marketing these products on our own, we may suffer a reduction in the ultimate overall profitability for us of these products. In addition, if we are unable to enter into these arrangements for a particular product, we may be required to either sell our rights in the product to a third party or abandon it unless we are able to raise sufficient capital to fund the substantial expenditures necessary for development and marketing of the product. We Will Incur Substantial Expenses and May Be Required to Pay Substantial Milestone Payments Relating to Our Product Development Efforts We estimate that our planned Phase IIb trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS and related activities will require us to incur approximately $26.8 million (including amounts payable under the Master Agreement for Clinical Trials Management Services we have entered into with Pharmaceutical Research Associates) over the 24 to 30 months beginning December 2006, assuming we receive FDA clearance for this trial. In addition, the agreement by which we acquired our molecular chaperone co-induction drug candidates 17 Table of Contents provides for milestone payments based on the occurrence of certain regulatory filings and approvals related to the acquired products. In the event that we successfully develop any of those products, these milestone payments could aggregate as much as $3.7 million, with the most significant of those payments due upon the first commercialization of any of those products. The actual costs of our planned Phase IIb trial could significantly exceed the expected amount due to a variety of factors associated with the conduct of clinical trials, including those described in the Risk Factor section below under “If Our Products Are Not Successfully Developed and Approved by the FDA, We May Be Forced to Reduce or Curtail Our Operations.” Under our license for our HIV vaccine candidate, we are responsible for all of the costs for any subsequent clinical trials for this vaccine. The costs of subsequent trials for the HIV vaccine, if initiated, would be very substantial. Although we are seeking National Institutes of Health or other governmental funding for these future trials, there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure any such funding. We also will be responsible for milestone payments based upon the development of the vaccine. If Our Products Are Not Successfully Developed and Approved by the FDA, We May Be Forced to Reduce or Curtail Our Operations All of our products in development must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically includes the conduct of extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we or our licensees anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following: • Difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials. • Difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines. • Unexpected adverse reactions by patients in trials. • Difficulty in obtaining clinical supplies of the product. • Changes in the FDA’s requirements for our testing during the course of that testing. • Inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested. • Modification of the drug during testing. • Reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs. It is possible that none of the products we develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin selling them. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or 18 Table of Contents failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the particular drug candidate. Our Molecular Chaperone Co-Induction Drug Candidates May Not Receive Regulatory Marketing Approvals In September 2006, we announced results of our Phase IIa clinical testing of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS. We reported that arimoclomol had met the trial’s primary endpoints of safety and tolerability at all three doses tested in the Phase IIa trial, and that the trial results indicated a non-statistically-significant trend of improvement in functional capacity as measured by the Revised ALS Functional Ration Scale in the arimoclomol high dose group as compared with untreated patients. There is no assurance, however, that the results and achievements described will be supported by further analysis of the Phase IIa trial or open-label extension data, or by the results of any subsequent clinical trials, or that the FDA will permit us to commence our planned Phase IIb clinical on a timely basis or at all. The requirements imposed by the FDA in connection with our planned Phase IIb trial could add to the time and expense for us to carry out this trial. We believe that the FDA may accept the completion of a successful Phase II clinical program as sufficient to enable us to submit a New Drug Application, or NDA; however, there is no assurance that the FDA will accept our Phase II program in lieu of a Phase III clinical trial. If the FDA requires us to complete a Phase III clinical trial, the cost of development of arimoclomol will increase significantly beyond our estimated costs, and the time to completion of clinical testing also will be significantly delayed. In addition, the FDA ultimately could require us to achieve an efficacy end point in the clinical trials for arimoclomol that could be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming than our planned end point. Although we anticipate developing arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS, arimoclomol has also shown therapeutic efficacy in a preclinical animal model of diabetes and we may pursue development of arimoclomol for diabetic indications. However, such development would require significant and costly additional testing. There is no guarantee that arimoclomol will show any efficacy for any indication. Iroxanadine has been tested in two Phase I clinical trials and one Phase II clinical trial which indicated improvement in the function of endothelial cells in blood vessels of patients at risk of cardiovascular disease. We might develop this product in indications such as diabetic retinopathy and wound healing, which will require significant and costly additional testing. There is no guarantee that iroxanadine will show any efficacy in the intended uses we are seeking. We may also attempt to license iroxanadine to larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for cardiovascular indications; however, there is no guarantee that any such company will be interested in licensing iroxanadine from us or licensing it on terms that are attractive to us. Bimoclomol has been tested in two Phase II clinical trials where it was shown to be safe, but where it did not show efficacy for diabetic neuropathy, the indication for which it was tested. We may develop this compound for other therapeutic indications; however, there can be no guarantee that this compound will be effective in treating any diseases. In addition, the FDA may require us to perform new safety clinical trials, which would be expensive and time consuming and would delay development of bimoclomol. There is no guarantee that any additional clinical trials will be successful or that the FDA will approve any of these products and allow us to begin selling them in the United States. We Have Identified Material Weaknesses in our Internal Control over Financial Reporting In this Annual Report, we are reporting material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting related to the application of generally accepted accounting principles arising from our accounting for historical warrant anti-dilution adjustments as deemed dividends, and in the effectiveness of our internal controls over quarterly and annual financial statement reporting arising from our accounting for research and development expenses related to our laboratory facility in Worcester, Massachusetts, which are described in more detail below under the heading “Controls and Procedures.” Despite our substantial efforts to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting process, we cannot guarantee that we will not identify additional weaknesses as we continue to work with the new systems that we have 19 Table of Contents implemented over the past year. Any continuing material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements, which could erode market confidence in our company, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and, in egregious circumstances, result in possible claims based upon such financial information. We Are Subject to Intense Competition, and There is No Assurance that We Can Compete Successfully We and our strategic partners or licensees may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by intense competition and rapid and significant technological advancements. Many companies, research institutions and universities are working in a number of areas similar to our primary fields of interest to develop new products. There also is intense competition among companies seeking to acquire products that already are being marketed. Many of the companies with which we compete have or are likely to have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than at least some of our present or future strategic partners or licensees. As a result, these competitors may: • Succeed in developing competitive products sooner than us or our strategic partners or licensees. • Obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for their products before we can obtain approval of any of our products. • Obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit the development and commercialization of our product candidates. • Develop products that are safer or more effective than our products. • Devote greater resources to marketing or selling their products. • Introduce or adapt more quickly to new technologies and other scientific advances. • Introduce products that render our products obsolete. • Withstand price competition more successfully than us or our strategic partners or licensees. • Negotiate third-party strategic alliances or licensing arrangements more effectively. • Take advantage of other opportunities more readily. We are aware of only one drug, Rilutek, which was developed by Aventis Pharma AG, that has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of ALS, which is now available in generic form. Other companies are working to develop pharmaceuticals to treat ALS, including Aeolus Pharmaceuticals, Celgene Corporation, Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation, Ono Pharmaceuticals, Trophos SA, FaustPharmaceuticals SA, Oxford BioMedica plc, and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. In addition, ALS belongs to a family of diseases called neurodegenerative diseases, which includes Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and Huntington’s disease. Due to similarities between these diseases, a new treatment for one ailment potentially could be useful for treating others. There also are many companies that are producing and developing drugs used to treat neurodegenerative diseases other than ALS, including Amgen, Inc., Cephalon, Inc., Ceregene, Inc., Elan Pharmaceuticals, plc, Forest Laboratories, Inc., H. Lundbeck A/S, Phytopharm plc, and Schwarz Pharma AG. 20 Table of Contents A number of products currently are being marketed by a variety of the multinational or other pharmaceutical companies for treating type 2 diabetes, including among others the diabetes drugs Avandia by GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Actos by Eli Lilly & Co., Glucophage and Junavia by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Symlin and Byetta by Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Starlix by Novartis and the obesity drugs Acomplia by Sanofi-Aventis SA, Xenical by F. Hoffman-La Roche Ltd. and Meridia by Abbott Laboratories. Many major pharmaceutical companies are also seeking to develop new therapies for these disease indications. Companies developing HIV vaccines that could compete with our HIV vaccine technology include Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi Pasteur, VaxGen, Inc., AlphaVax, Inc. and Immunitor Corporation. These competitors have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than RXi. We Will Rely upon Third Parties for the Manufacture of Our Clinical Product Supplies We do not have the facilities or expertise to manufacture supplies of any of our product candidates, including the clinical supply of arimoclomol used in our Phase II clinical trials. Accordingly, we are dependent upon contract manufacturers or our strategic alliance partners to manufacture these supplies. We have a manufacturing supply arrangement in place with respect to the clinical supplies for the Phase II clinical program for arimoclomol for ALS. We have no manufacturing supply arrangements for any of our other product candidates, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure needed manufacturing supply arrangements on attractive terms, or at all. Our failure to secure these arrangements as needed could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to complete the development of our products or to commercialize them. We May Be Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, Which Could Adversely Affect the Value of Our Assets We believe that obtaining and maintaining patent and other intellectual property rights for our technologies and potential products is critical to establishing and maintaining the value of our assets and our business. Although we have patents and patent applications directed to our molecular chaperone co-induction technologies, there can be no assurance that these patents and applications will prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies, that the validity of our patents will be upheld if challenged by third parties or that our technologies will not be deemed to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. In particular, although we conducted certain due diligence regarding the patents and patent applications related to our molecular chaperone co-induction drug candidates, and received certain representations and warranties from the seller in connection with the acquisition, the patents and patent applications related to our molecular chaperone co-induction drug candidates were issued or filed, as applicable, prior to our acquisition and thus there can be no assurance that the validity, enforceability and ownership of those patents and patent applications will be upheld if challenged by third parties. Any litigation brought by us to protect our intellectual property rights or by third parties asserting intellectual property rights against us, or challenging our patents, could be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition, make it more difficult for us to enter into strategic alliances with third parties to develop our products, or discourage our existing licensees from continuing their development work on our potential products. If our patent coverage is insufficient to prevent third parties from developing or commercializing similar or identical technologies, the value of our assets is likely to be materially and adversely affected. We Are Subject to Potential Liabilities From Clinical Testing and Future Product Liability Claims If any of our products are alleged to be defective, they may expose us to claims for personal injury by patients in clinical trials of our products or by patients using our commercially marketed products. Even if the commercialization of one or more of our products is approved by the FDA, users may claim that such products caused unintended adverse effects. We currently do not carry product liability insurance covering the commercial marketing of these products. We obtained clinical trial insurance for our Phase IIa clinical trial of arimoclomol for the treatment of ALS, and will seek to obtain similar insurance for the planned Phase IIb 21 Table of Contents clinical trial of arimoclomol and any other clinical trials that we conduct, as well as liability insurance for any products that we market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional insurance in the amounts we seek, or at all. We anticipate that our licensees who are developing our products will carry liability insurance covering the clinical testing and marketing of those products. There is no assurance, however, that any insurance maintained by us or our licensees will prove adequate in the event of a claim against us. Even if claims asserted against us are unsuccessful, they may divert management’s attention from our operations and we may have to incur substantial costs to defend such claims. We May Be Unable to Acquire Products Approved For Marketing In the future, we may seek to acquire products from third parties that already are being marketed or have been approved for marketing. We have not identified any of these products, and we do not have any prior experience in acquiring or marketing products and may need to find third parties to market any products that we might acquire. We may also seek to acquire products through a merger with one or more companies that own such products. In any such merger, the owners of our merger partner could be issued or hold a substantial, or even controlling, amount of stock in our company or, in the event that the other company is the surviving company, in that other company. Risks Associated With Our Ownership of RXi The value of our ownership interest in RXi will depend upon RXi’s success in developing and commercializing products based upon its RNAi technologies, which is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: RXi Will Be Subject to Risks of a New Business RXi is a start-up company with no operating history. RXi will focus solely on developing and commercializing therapeutic products based upon its RNAi technologies, and there is no assurance that RXi will be able to successfully implement its business plan. While RXi’s management collectively possesses substantial business experience, including experience in taking start-up companies from early stage to an operational stage, there is no assurance that they will be able to manage RXi’s business effectively, or that they will be able to identify, hire and retain any needed additional management or scientific personnel, to develop and implement RXi’s product development plans, obtain third-party contracts or any needed financing, or achieve the other components of RXi’s business plan. The Approach RXi is Taking to Discover and Develop Novel Therapeutics Using RNAi is Unproven and May Never Lead to Marketable Products The RNAi technologies that RXi has licensed from UMMS have not yet been clinically tested by RXi or by us, nor are we aware of any clinical trials having been completed by third parties involving similar technologies. To date, neither we nor any other company has received regulatory approval to market therapeutics utilizing RNAi. The scientific discoveries that form the basis for RXi’s efforts to discover and develop new drugs are relatively new. The scientific evidence to support the feasibility of developing drugs based on these discoveries is both preliminary and limited. Successful development of RNAi-based products by RXi will require solving a number of issues, including providing suitable methods of stabilizing the RNAi drug material and delivering it into target cells in the human body. RXi may spend large amounts of money trying to solve these issues, and never succeed in doing so. In addition, any compounds that RXi develops may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies, and they may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or even harmful ways. RXi May Be Unable to Protect Its Intellectual Property Rights Licensed From UMMS or May Need to License Additional Intellectual Property from Others. The assets we contributed to RXi include a non-exclusive license to the fundamental Fire and Mello patent owned by UMMS and the Carnegie Institution of Washington, which claims various aspects of gene 22 Table of Contents silencing, or genetic inhibition by double-stranded RNA, but there can be no assurance that this patent or other pending applications or issued patents belonging to its patent family will withstand possible legal challenges or otherwise protect the covered technologies from competition. Therapeutic applications of gene silencing technology and other technologies that RXi licenses from UMMS are also claimed in a number of UMMS pending patent applications, but there can be no assurance that these applications will result in any issued patents or that those patents would withstand possible legal challenges or protect RXi’s technologies from competition. We are aware of a number of third party-issued patents directed to various particular forms and compositions of RNAi-mediating molecules, and therapeutic methods using them, that RXi will not use. Third parties may, however, hold or seek to obtain additional patents that could make it more difficult or impossible for RXi to develop products based on the gene silencing technology that RXi has licensed. RXi has entered into an invention disclosure agreement with UMMS under which UMMS has agreed to disclose to RXi certain inventions it makes and to give RXi the exclusive right to negotiate licenses to the disclosed technologies. There can be no assurance, however, that any such inventions will arise, that RXi will be able to negotiate licenses to any inventions on satisfactory terms, or at all, or that any negotiated licenses will prove commercially successful. RXi may need to license additional intellectual property rights from third parties in order to be able to complete the development or enhance the efficacy of its product candidates or avoid possible infringement of the rights of others. There is no assurance that RXi will be able to acquire any additional intellectual property rights on satisfactory terms, or at all. RXi May Not Be Able to Obtain Sufficient Financing In order to retain the 2007 UMMS licenses and effectuate the new UMMS invention disclosure agreement, RXi is required to obtain significant funding in the coming few months. Although CytRx has the resources to provide that funding, if necessary, CytRx is not committed to do so, and RXi has no commitments or arrangements for any third-party financing. The loss of the 2007 UMMS licenses and new UMMS invention disclosure agreement could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and could materially and adversely affect RXi’s ability to develop the RNAi technologies that we contributed to RXi. Following the initial funding, RXi will require substantial additional financing in the future in connection with its RNAi research and development activities and any commercialization of its products. We contributed all of our RNAi-related technologies to RXi in order to accelerate the development and commercialization of drugs based upon these and RXi’s other RNAi technologies. Although we believe that this will facilitate obtaining additional financing to pursue RXi’s RNAi development efforts, RXi has no commitments or arrangements for any financing, and there is no assurance that it will be able to obtain any future financing. Under our agreement with RXi and its other current stockholders, with some exceptions, CytRx will have preemptive rights to acquire a portion of any new securities sold or issued by RXi so as to maintain our percentage ownership of RXi. Depending upon the terms and provisions of any proposed sale of new securities by RXi, we may be unable or unwilling to exercise our preemptive rights, in which event our percentage ownership of RXi will be diluted. In order to maintain our percentage ownership of RXi, we may need to obtain our own financing, which may or may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. We Will Be Required To Dispose of Some of Our RXi Shares, and May Not Be Able To Do So On Attractive Terms Following RXi’s initial funding, we have agreed under our letter agreement with UMMS and our separate stockholders agreement with RXi and its other current stockholders to reduce our share of ownership of RXi to less than a majority of the outstanding voting power as soon as reasonably practicable. We may seek to dispose of a portion of our RXi shares through a dividend or distribution of such shares to our stockholders, a sale or other disposition to one or more third parties, or other means. Any proposed dividend or other distribution to our stockholders of RXi shares would be subject to SEC rules and the requirements of the 23 Table of Contents Delaware General Corporation Law. We may be unable to comply with these rules and requirements, or may experience delays in complying. Any such dividend or distribution also would likely be taxable to our stockholders. We have no agreement, understanding or arrangement with respect to the possible disposition of any of our RXi shares. RXi Will Retain Discretion Over Its Use of Any Funds That We Provide To It Although RXi currently is a majority-owned subsidiary of ours, we do not control the day-to-day operations of RXi. Accordingly, all funds received by RXi, whether or not from us, will be used by RXi in any manner its management deems appropriate, including for its own working capital and general corporate purposes, including the payment of salaries and employee expenses of its officers and other employees, amounts called for under the UMMS licenses and invention disclosure agreement, and for other costs and expenses of its RNAi research and development activities. Our interests will be represented by two members of the board of directors of RXi who may be able to influence RXi’s decisions regarding the use of RXi’s funds and any proceeds we contribute to RXi. However, we will have no right to control RXi’s use of its funds. We Will Not Control RXi, And The Officers, Directors and Other RXi Stockholders May Have Interests That Are Different From Ours We have entered into a letter agreement with UMMS and a separate agreement with RXi and its other current stockholders under which we agree during the term of RXi’s new licenses from UMMS to vote our shares of RXi common stock for the election of directors of RXi and to take other actions to ensure that a majority of the RXi board of directors are independent of us. These agreements will become effective only upon RXi’s initial funding. Upon the initial funding, if we own at any time a majority of the outstanding voting power of RXi, we have agreed that we will reduce our ownership to less than a majority as soon as reasonably practicable. At any time at which we own less than a majority of the voting power RXi, we will not be able to solely determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of RXi stockholders. The other stockholders of RXi also may have interests that are different from ours. Accordingly, RXi may engage in actions or develop its business and operations in a manner that we believe are not in our best interests. Products Developed by RXi Could Eventually Compete With Our Products For ALS, Type 2 Diabetes and Obesity and Other Disease Indications RXi has determined to focus its initial efforts on developing an RNAi therapeutics for the treatment of a specific form of ALS caused by a defect in the SOD1 gene. Although arimoclomol is being developed by CytRx for all forms of ALS, it is possible that any products developed by RXi for the treatment of ALS could compete with any ALS products that CytRx may develop. RXi also plans to pursue the development of RNAi therapeutics for the treatment of obesity and type 2 diabetes, which could compete with any products that CytRx may develop for the treatment of these diseases. The potential commercial success of any products that CytRx may develop for these and other diseases may be adversely effected by competing products that RXi may develop. RXi Will Be Subject to Competition, and It May Not Be Able To Compete Successfully A number of medical institutions and pharmaceutical companies are seeking to develop products based on gene silencing technologies. Companies working in this area include Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Sirna Therapeutics (which was recently acquired by Merck), Acuity Pharmaceuticals, Nastech Pharmaceutical Company Inc., Nucleonics, Inc., Tacere Therapeutics Inc. and Benitec Ltd. and a number of the multinational pharmaceutical companies. These competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, scientific, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and other resources than RXi, and RXi may not be able to compete successfully. 24 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our Anti-Takeover Provisions May Make It More Difficult to Change Our Management or May Discourage Others From Acquiring Us and Thereby Adversely Affect Stockholder Value We have a stockholder rights plan and provisions in our bylaws that may discourage or prevent a person or group from acquiring us without the approval of our board of directors. We recently extended the stockholder rights plan through April 2017. The intent of the stockholder rights plan and our bylaw provisions is to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors. We have a classified board of directors, which means that at least two stockholder meetings, instead of one, will be required to effect a change in the majority control of our board of directors. This provision applies to every election of directors, not just an election occurring after a change in control. The classification of our board increases the amount of time it takes to change majority control of our board of directors and may cause our potential purchasers to lose interest in the potential purchase of us, regardless of whether our purchase would be beneficial to us or our stockholders. The additional time and cost to change a majority of the members of our board of directors makes it more difficult and may discourage our existing stockholders from seeking to change our existing management in order to change the strategic direction or operational performance of our company. Our bylaws provide that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote at an election of directors. This provision prevents stockholders from removing any incumbent director without cause. Our bylaws also provide that a stockholder must give us at least 120 days notice of a proposal or director nomination that such stockholder desires to present at any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders. Such provision prevents a stockholder from making a proposal or director nomination at a stockholder meeting without us having advance notice of that proposal or director nomination. This could make a change in control more difficult by providing our directors with more time to prepare an opposition to a proposed change in control. By making it more difficult to remove or install new directors, the bylaw provisions may also make our existing management less responsive to the views of our stockholders with respect to our operations and other issues such as management selection and management compensation. Our Outstanding Options and Warrants and the Registrations of Our Shares Issued in and Our Private Financings May Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Common Stock As of February 28, 2007, there were outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 23.4 million shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.20 to $2.70 per share. Our outstanding options and warrants could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing or engage in certain mergers or other transactions, since the holders of options and warrants can be expected to exercise them at a time when we may be able to obtain additional capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable to us than the terms of outstanding options and warrants. For the life of the options and warrants, the holders have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risk of ownership. To the extent the trading price of our common stock at the time of exercise of any such options or warrants exceeds the exercise price, such exercise will also have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Warrants to purchase approximately 2.8 million shares contain anti-dilution provisions that are triggered upon any issuance of securities by us below the prevailing market price of our common stock. Warrants to purchase approximately 23.4 million shares contain anti-dilution provisions pertaining to dividends or distributions with respect to our common stock that could be triggered if we were to make a dividend or distribution of RXi shares while the warrants remain outstanding. In the event that these anti-dilution provisions are triggered by us in the future, we would be required to reduce the exercise price, and increase the number of shares underlying, those warrants, which would have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. 25 Table of Contents Since 2003, we have registered with the SEC for resale by the holders a total of approximately 51.1 million outstanding shares of our common stock and an additional approximately 22.6 million shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of options and warrants. The availability for public resale of these various shares, as well as actual resales of these shares, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We May Issue Preferred Stock in the Future, and the Terms of the Preferred Stock May Reduce the Value of Our Common Stock We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the terms of future preferred stock offerings without further action by our stockholders. If we issue preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, sinking fund provisions, and restrictions on our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. We May Experience Volatility in Our Stock Price, Which May Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has ranged from $0.87 to $5.49 per share during the 52-week period ended March 23, 2007, and may continue to experience significant volatility from time to time. Factors such as the following may affect such volatility: • announcements of regulatory developments or technological innovations by us or our competitors; • changes in our relationship with our licensors and other strategic partners; • changes in our ownership or other relationships with RXi; • our quarterly operating results; • developments in patent or other technology ownership rights; • public concern regarding the safety of our products; • government regulation of drug pricing; and • other factors which may affect our stock price are general changes in the economy, the financial markets or the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries. 