Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Those interested in investing in the Company should carefully consider the following Risk Factors pertaining to Oncologix Tech as well as the risks and uncertainties that are described in the Company's most recent Annual and Quarterly Reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These Risk Factors are not all inclusive. 12 Going Concern Qualification. Our Independent Accountants have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of the material operating losses incurred since inception, and its stockholders' deficit. We expect to continue to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including obtaining additional funding from the sale of our securities or obtaining loans from various financial institutions where possible. The going concern increases the difficulty in meeting such goals. Financial Condition of Dotolo Research Corporation (“DRC”) DRC has limited working capital with no cash on hand at August 31, 2013. Since January 31, 2013, DRC has incurred indebtedness of $50,000 to meet its working capital needs. These two notes bear interest at 18% per annum and require minimum, monthly interest payments of $750.00. Additional financing will be required to get DRC to cash flow break even.. Need for Additional Capital We will need substantial funds to complete the development of new product introductions, manufacturing, and marketing of our products at DRC. Consequently, we will seek to raise further capital through not only possible public and private offerings of equity and debt securities, but also collaborative arrangements, strategic alliances, and equity and debt financings from other sources. AOM operates with positive cash flow sufficient to service the business operations and debt payment requirements of the acquisition but will need additional funds to complete the audit of Angels as well as costs for other required SEC and other regulatory filings. We now estimate the need to raise at least $650,000 of additional funding for working capital and development for DRC. Additionally, we estimate the need to raise at least $350,000 for overhead of Oncologix Tech, Inc. We may be unable to raise additional capital on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, and if we raise capital through additional equity financing, existing shareholders may have their ownership interests diluted. Our failure to be able to generate adequate funds from operations or from additional sources would harm our business. Uncertainties Regarding Healthcare Reimbursement and Reform Our ability to execute our strategy in the medical markets depends in part on the extent to which healthcare services and products are paid by governmental agencies, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, for the cost of such products and related treatments. Our business could be harmed if healthcare payers and providers implement cost-containment measures and governmental agencies implement measures that reduce payment to our customers for their use of our products. Industry Intensely Competitive. The medical device and health services industry is intensely competitive. While we maintain a strong market share in hardware and disposable products sales world-wide, there is no guarantee we can maintain that market share. We will compete with both public and private medical device and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater number of products on the market, have greater financial resources and have other competitive advantages. We cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business; will benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities or will not develop products that are accepted more widely than ours. Healthcare Service Industry Intensely Competitive. The healthcare service industry is very competitive. While we maintain a strong leadership position in personal care services, there is no guarantee we can maintain that market share. We will compete with both public and private healthcare service companies that hold licenses in other Regions within the State of Louisiana and directly compete with companies in Region 4 and Region 6 that may have greater financial resources and have other competitive advantages. 13 Intellectual Property Risk. Our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other protection for our products will affect our success. The patent positions of medical device companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Future patent rights, if granted, may not be upheld in a court of law if challenged. Our patent rights may not provide competitive advantages for our products and may be challenged, infringed upon or circumvented by our competitors. We cannot patent our products in all countries or afford to litigate every potential violation worldwide. Because of the large number of patent filings in medical device, our competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents do not exist or will not issue that would harm our ability to commercialize our products and product candidates. Possible Failure to Comply with Government Regulations. We, and any prospective contract manufacturers and suppliers are subject to extensive, complex, costly, and evolving governmental rules, regulations and restrictions administered by the FDA, by other federal and state agencies, and by governmental authorities in other countries. In the United States, our products are registered as a Class II device and cannot be marketed until they are approved for market by the FDA. Obtaining FDA market approval involves the submission, among other information, may require clinical studies on the product, and requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. The FDA, and other federal and state agencies, as well as equivalent agencies of other countries with whom we will export our products, will also perform pre-licensing inspections of our facility, if any, and our contract manufacturers' and suppliers' facilities. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers or suppliers to meet FDA or other agencies' requirements would delay or preclude our ability to sell our products potentially having an adverse material effect on our business. Even with FDA market approval, we, as well as our partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers, are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and continuing review of medical products, and to permit government inspection at all times. Failure to meet or comply with any rules, regulations, or restrictions of the FDA or other agencies could result in fines, unanticipated expenditures, product delays, non-approval or recall, interruption of production, and criminal prosecution. Exposure to Product Liability Claims. Our design, testing, development, manufacture, and marketing of products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims and related adverse publicity. Although we believe that our product liability insurance is adequate, additional insurance coverage is expensive and in the future we may be unable to obtain additional liability coverage on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost or if a successful product liability claim is made against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not, our business could be harmed. Reliance on Key Personnel Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of our executive officers and key management personnel. If we lose the services of any of these officers or key personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified Regulatory, Marketing, Sales, and manufacturing personnel and our ability to develop and maintain relationships with key individuals in the industry. Competition to attract qualified personnel and relationships is intense and we compete with other companies in our industry. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. 14 Uncertainty as to our Ability to Initiate Operations and Manage Growth. Our efforts to market our products will result in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and will place a strain upon our management, financial systems, and resources. We may be required to continue to implement and to improve our management, operating and financial systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our employees. There can be no assurance that our personnel, systems, procedures, and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Healthcare Service Industry Intensely Competitive. The healthcare service industry is very competitive. While we maintain a strong leadership position in personal care services, there is no guarantee we can maintain that market share. We will compete with both public and private healthcare service companies that hold licenses in other Regions within the State of Louisiana and directly compete with companies in Region 4 and Region 6 that may have greater financial resources and have other competitive advantages. Compliance with Government Regulations. We, and all healthcare service companies are subject to extensive, and evolving governmental rules, regulations and restrictions administered by the Department of Health & Hospitals, the Bureau of Health Services Financing, by other federal and state agencies, and by governmental authorities. Reliance on Key Personnel Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon the experience, abilities and continued services of our executive officers and key management personnel. If we lose the services of any of these officers or key personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success also will depend upon our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified health services Case Managers, sales and marketing, our core administrative personnel and our ability to develop and maintain relationships with our clients in the industry. Uncertainty as to our Ability to Grow Operations and Manage Growth. Our efforts to increase market penetration will result in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and will place a strain upon our management, financial systems, and resources. We may be required to continue to implement and to improve our management, operating and financial systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our employees. There can be no assurance that our personnel, systems, procedures, and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Integration of Newly Acquired Businesses. The Company may make strategic acquisitions in the future and cannot assure that it will be able to successfully integrate the operations of newly-acquired businesses into the Company's current operations. It is Management intent to consolidate various business functions to include Information Technology, Accounting, legal under a central core operation. The failure to integrate newly acquired businesses or the inability to make suitable strategic acquisitions in the future could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Attraction and Retention of Qualified Personnel The Company is dependent on the efforts and abilities of its senior executive officers. While the Company believes that its senior management team has significant experience and depth, appropriate senior management succession plans are in place. The Company's future success also depends on its ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Broker-Dealer Requirements May Affect Trading and Liquidity of Our Common Stock Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor's account. Potential investors in the Registrant's common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be "penny stock." Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 