Risk Factors” section of this annual report, clients terminate, delay, or change the scope of projects for a variety of reasons including, among others, the failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements, unexpected or undesirable clinical results of the product, the clients’ decision to forego a particular study, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment, or production problems resulting in shortages of the drug. Generally, our contracts can be terminated upon thirty to sixty days notice by the client. We are typically entitled to receive certain fees and, in some cases, a termination fee for winding down a delayed or terminated project. COMPETITION We compete with other biopharmaceutical services companies and other organizations that provide one or more of the services currently being offered by us. Some of the larger biopharmaceutical services companies, such as Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. and Icon plc, offer services that compete directly with our services at many levels. We believe that the synergies arising from integrating the products and services offered by our different business units, coupled with our global infrastructure (and resulting rapid access to diverse patient populations), technological expertise, and depth of expertise and experience differentiate us from our competitors. Although there are no guarantees that we will continue to do so, we believe that we compete favorably in all of our business areas and segments, as more fully described in the following: CRS The clinical outsourcing services industry is very fragmented, with several hundred providers offering varying levels of service, skills, and capabilities. Our CRS group primarily competes against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, other full service biopharmaceutical services companies, small specialty CROs, and to a lesser extent, universities, teaching hospitals, and other site organizations. The primary competitors for our CRS business include Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., Kendle International Inc., and Icon plc. 10 Table of Contents CRS generally competes on the basis of: • a broad international presence with strategically located facilities; • the ability to organize and manage large-scale clinical trials on a global basis; • the ability to quickly recruit investigators and patients; • medical and scientific expertise in a specific therapeutic area; • quality of services; • breadth of services; • the ability to integrate information technology with systems to improve the efficiency of clinical research; • previous experience with a client or a specific therapeutic area; • the ability to manage large and complex medical databases; • the ability to provide statistical and regulatory services; • financial strength and stability; and • price. We believe CRS’s key competitive strengths are its global footprint and related rapid access to diverse patient populations, therapeutic expertise, technological expertise and its experience in global drug development. PCMS Our PCMS segment competes with a large and diverse group of specialty service providers, including major consulting firms with pharmaceutical industry practices, large and small biopharmaceutical services companies, individual consultants, specialty medical communications services companies, large international advertising companies, and medical public relation firms. We believe that we are different from our competitors in that no other company provides the unique fusion of scientific, regulatory and business expertise that our PCMS segment offers. We consider PCMS’s key competitive strengths to include a combination of deep expertise in early stage drug development, regulatory strategy and submissions, manufacturing compliance, business process optimization, reimbursement, and global marketing and communications strategies. We believe that this broad range of capabilities enables us to help our clients get the right product to market in an efficient and effective manner. PERCEPTIVE Our Perceptive business competes primarily with biopharmaceutical services companies, information technology companies, and software companies. Companies in this segment compete based on the strength and usability of their technology offerings, their expertise and experience, and their understanding of the clinical development process. Perceptive’s key competitive strength is its combination of technological expertise and knowledge of clinical development. Additionally, the acquisition of ClinPhone greatly enhances the depth and breadth of our service offerings. Perceptive’s market position may be affected over time by competitors’ efforts to develop and market new information technology products and services. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our trademark “PAREXEL,” is of material importance to us. This and other trademarks have been registered in the U.S. and many foreign countries. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks generally may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and as long as they have not been found to have become generic. EMPLOYEES As of June 30, 2008, we had over 8,050 full-time equivalent employees. Approximately 30.6% of the employees are located in North America and approximately 69.4% are located throughout Europe, Asia/Pacific, Africa, and South America. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. On August 14, 2008, we completed the acquisition of ClinPhone, bringing our headcount to over 8,800 full-time equivalent employees. 11 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified professional, scientific, and technical staff. The level of competition among employers in the U.S. and overseas for skilled personnel, particularly those with Ph.D., M.D., or equivalent degrees, is high. We believe that our name recognition and our multinational presence, which allows for international transfers, are an advantage in attracting employees. In addition, we believe that the wide range of clinical trials in which we participate allows us to offer broad experience to clinical researchers. GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS We provide clinical trial and diverse consulting services to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device industries. Lack of success in obtaining approval for the conduct of clinical trials in the countries where we manage clinical trials on behalf of our clients can adversely affect us. We make no guarantees to our clients with regard to successful outcomes of the regulatory process, including the success of clinical trial applications or marketing programs. Clinical research services provided by PAREXEL in the U.S. are subject to ongoing FDA regulation. We are obligated to comply with FDA requirements governing activities such as obtaining patient informed consents, verifying qualifications of investigators, reporting patients’ adverse reactions to products, and maintaining thorough and accurate records. We are also required to ensure that the computer systems we use to process human data from clinical trials are validated in accordance with the FDA’s electronic records regulations, 21 CFR Part 11, which apply to the pharmaceutical and CRO industries when companies choose to use electronic records in lieu of paper records or electronic signatures in lieu of traditional signatures. We must maintain source documents for each study for specified periods, and such documents may be reviewed according to GCP standards by the study sponsors and the FDA during audits and inspections. Non-compliance with GCP can result in the disqualification of data collected during a clinical trial and in non-approval or non-clearance of a product application submitted to the FDA. The clinical investigation of new drugs, biologics, and medical devices is highly regulated by government agencies. The standard for the conduct of clinical research and development studies is embodied in GCP, which stipulates procedures designed to ensure the quality and integrity of data obtained from clinical testing, and to protect the rights and safety of clinical trial participants. The FDA and many other regulatory authorities require that study results submitted to such authorities be based on studies conducted in compliance with GCP. The European Union (“EU”) established as of May 1, 2004 the Clinical Trials Directive (the “Directive”) in an attempt to harmonize the regulatory requirements of the member states of the EU for the conduct of clinical trials in its territory. The Directive requires sponsors of clinical trials to submit formal applications to national ethics committees and regulatory authorities prior to the initiation of clinical trials in any of the 27 member states of the EU. Whereas some member states, prior to the implementation of the Directive, had minimal requirements for clinical trial initiation, all member states are now subject to the same stringent requirements of the Directive. As in the United States, clinical trials in the EU are expected to be carried out in compliance with detailed requirements for GCP. The international regulatory approval process includes all of the risks and potential delays associated with the FDA approval process. Because the FDA’s regulatory requirements have served as the model for much of the regulation of new drug development worldwide, regulatory requirements similar to those of the FDA exist in the other countries in which PAREXEL operates. Our regulatory capabilities include knowledge of the specific regulatory requirements of numerous countries. We have managed simultaneous regulatory submissions in more than one country for a number of drug sponsors during each of the past ten years. Beginning in 1991, the FDA and corresponding regulatory agencies of the EU and Japan commenced discussions to develop harmonized standards for preclinical and clinical studies and the format and content of applications for new drug approvals through a process known as the International Conference on Harmonisation (“ICH”) of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human use. Data from multinational studies adhering to GCP are now generally acceptable to the FDA and Canadian, EU and Japanese regulators. The ICH process has sanctioned a single common format for drug and biologic marketing applications, known as the Common Technical Document (“CTD”) in the U.S., Europe, Japan and Canada. On July 1, 2003 the CTD format became mandatory in Europe and Japan and highly recommended by the FDA in the U.S. and by the Canadian regulatory authorities. We have developed the expertise to prepare CTDs for our clients in both paper and electronic form. 12 Table of Contents REGULATION OF DRUGS AND BIOLOGICS Before a new drug or biologic may be approved and marketed, the drug or biologic must undergo extensive testing and regulatory review in order to determine that the drug or biologic is safe and effective. It is not possible to estimate the time in which preclinical and Phases I, II and III studies will be completed with respect to a given product, although the time period may last many years. Using the U.S. regulatory environment as an example, the stages of this development process are generally as follows: Preclinical Research (approximately 1 to 3.5 years) – In vitro (“test tube”) and animal studies must be conducted in accordance with GLP to establish the relative toxicity of the drug or biologic over a wide range of doses and to detect any potential to cause a variety of adverse conditions or diseases, including birth defects or cancer. If results warrant continuing development of the drug or biologic, the results of the studies are submitted to the FDA by the manufacturer as part of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”), which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. An IND must include, among other things, preclinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and control information, and an investigational plan, and must become effective before such trials may begin. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions relating to one or more proposed clinical trials. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, there can be no assurance that submission of an IND will result in the ability to commence clinical trials. Clinical Trials (approximately 3.5 to 6 years) Phase I consists of basic safety and pharmacology testing in approximately 20 to 80 human subjects, usually healthy volunteers or stable patients, and includes studies to evaluate the metabolic and pharmacologic action of the product in humans, how the drug or biologic works, how it is affected by other drugs, how it is tolerated and absorbed, where it goes in the body, how long it remains active, and how it is broken down and eliminated from the body. Phase II includes basic efficacy (effectiveness) and dose-range testing in a limited patient population (usually 100 to 200 patients) afflicted with a specific disease or condition for which the product is intended for use, further safety testing, evaluation of effectiveness, and determination of optimal dose levels, dose schedules, and routes of administration. If Phase II studies yield satisfactory results and no hold is placed on further studies by the FDA, Phase III studies can be commenced. Phase III includes larger scale, multi-center, comparative clinical trials conducted with patients afflicted by a target disease, in order to provide enough data for a valid statistical test of safety and effectiveness required by the FDA and others, and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. When results from Phase II or Phase III show special promise in the treatment of a serious or immediately life-threatening disease or condition for which existing therapeutic options are nonexistent, limited, or of minimal value, the FDA may allow the sponsor to make the new drug available to a larger number of patients through the regulated mechanism of a Treatment Investigational New Drug Application (“TIND”) during Phase II, Phase III, or after all clinical trials have been completed. Although TINDs may enroll and collect a substantial amount of data from tens of thousands of patients, they are not granted in all cases. The FDA receives reports on the progress of each phase of clinical testing and may require the modification, suspension, or termination of clinical trials if, among other things, an unreasonable risk is presented to patients or if the design of the trial is insufficient to meet its stated objective. NDA or Biologic License Application (“BLA”) Preparation and Submission – Upon completion of Phase III trials, the sponsor assembles the statistically analyzed data from all phases of development, along with the chemistry and manufacturing and pre-clinical data and the proposed labeling, among other things, into a single large document, the NDA or BLA (in CTD format as of July 1, 2003), which today comprises, on average, roughly 100,000 pages. FDA Review of NDA or BLA – The FDA carefully scrutinizes data from all phases of development (including a TIND) to confirm that the manufacturer has complied with regulations and that the drug or biologic is safe and effective for the specific use (or “indication”) under study. The FDA may refuse to accept the NDA or BLA for filing and substantive review if certain administrative and content criteria are not satisfied. Even after accepting the submission for review, the FDA may also require additional testing or information before approval of an NDA or BLA. The FDA must deny approval of an NDA or BLA if applicable regulatory requirements are not ultimately satisfied. 13 Table of Contents Post-Marketing Surveillance and Phase IV Studies – Federal regulation requires the sponsor to collect and periodically report to the FDA additional safety and efficacy data on the drug or biologic for as long as the manufacturer markets the product (post-marketing surveillance). If the product is marketed outside the U.S., these reports must include data from all countries in which the product is sold. Additional studies (Phase IV) may be required by the FDA as a condition of the product’s approval to assess safety or verify clinical benefit or may be voluntarily undertaken after initial approval to find new uses for the product, to test new dosage formulations, or to confirm selected non-clinical benefits, e.g., increased cost-effectiveness or improved quality of life. Product approval may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. In addition, the FDA and other major regulatory agencies are now asking sponsor companies to prepare risk management plans for approved and marketed drugs and biologics, aimed at assessing areas of drug risk and plans for managing such risks should they materialize. The passage of the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 (“FDAAA”) has imposed additional requirements on sponsors to address drug safety, to conduct post-marketing studies required by the FDA and to submit clinical trial information, including clinical study results, of investigational and marketed drugs (as well as medical devices) to a databank maintained by the National Institutes of Health and accessible to the public on the Internet. This was done in order to increase the “public transparency” of clinical results. REGULATION OF MEDICAL DEVICES Unless a medical device is exempted from pre-market approval or clearance requirements, which are described below, FDA approval or clearance of the device is required before the product may be marketed in the United States. In order to obtain pre-market clearance for marketing, a manufacturer must demonstrate substantial equivalence to a similar legally marketed product by submitting a pre-market notification, or 510(k), to the FDA. The FDA may require preclinical and clinical data to support a substantial equivalence determination, and there can be no assurance the FDA will find a device substantially equivalent. Clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. In addition, if the FDA requires an approved Investigational Device Exemption (“IDE”) before clinical device trials may commence, there can be no guarantee that the agency will approve the IDE. The IDE approval process could also result in significant delays. After submission of a pre-market notification containing, among other things, any data collected, the FDA may find the device substantially equivalent and the device may be marketed. After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require approval of a pre-market approval application (“PMA”). If the FDA finds that a device is not substantially equivalent, the manufacturer may request that the FDA make a risk-based classification to place the device in Class I or Class II. However, if a timely request for risk-based classification is not made, or if the FDA determines that a Class III designation is appropriate, a PMA will be required before the device may be marketed. The PMA approval process is lengthy, expensive, and typically requires, among other things, extensive data from preclinical testing and a well-controlled clinical trial or trials that demonstrate a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. There can be no assurance that review will result in timely or any PMA approval. There may also be significant conditions associated with the approval, including limitations on labeling and advertising claims and the imposition of post-market testing, tracking, or surveillance requirements. Even after approval, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a modification to the device, its labeling or its manufacturing process. HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 1996 Laws protecting confidential medical information could impact the manner in which PAREXEL conducts certain components of our business. The Department of Health and Human Services administers and enforces privacy regulations (the “Privacy Rule”) under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”). These regulations impose restrictions governing the disclosure of confidential medical information in the U.S. The failure on the part of PAREXEL, our clients and/or the physician investigators from whom we receive confidential medical information to comply with the Privacy Rule could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. 14 Table of Contents POTENTIAL LIABILITY AND INSURANCE PAREXEL’s clinical research services focus on the testing of experimental drugs and devices on human volunteers pursuant to study protocols and in accordance with laws and regulations which govern clinical trials. Clinical research involves a risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients due to, among other reasons, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the new drug or medical device. For example, In March 2006, we conducted a Phase I clinical trial on behalf of TeGenero AG, a German pharmaceutical company, during which six participants experienced adverse reactions to the TeGenero compound being tested. Through June 30, 2008, we have recorded approximately $1.8 million in legal fees and other incremental costs in connection with the incident, as more fully discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report. PAREXEL does not provide healthcare services directly to patients. Rather, PAREXEL physicians or third party physician investigators are responsible for administering drugs and evaluating the study patients. Many of the patients enrolled in clinical trials are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. We believe that the risk of liability to patients in clinical trials is mitigated by various regulatory requirements, including the role of institutional review boards (“IRBs”), the need to obtain each patient’s informed consent, and the oversight by applicable regulatory authorities. The FDA, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the U.K., and regulatory authorities in other countries require each human clinical trial to be reviewed and approved by the IRB at each study site. An IRB is an independent ethics committee that includes both medical and non-medical personnel and is obligated to protect the interests of patients enrolled in the trial. The IRB monitors the protocol and the measures designed to protect patients, such as the requirement to obtain informed consents. To reduce its potential liability, PAREXEL generally seeks to incorporate indemnity provisions into our contracts with clients to protect PAREXEL from any negligent acts by the study Sponsor and/or third party physician investigators. These indemnity provisions do not, however, protect PAREXEL against certain of our own actions, such as those involving negligence. Moreover, these indemnities are contractual arrangements that are subject to negotiation with individual clients, and the terms and scope of such indemnities can vary from client to client and from study to study. Finally, the financial performance of these indemnities is not secured, so that we bear the risk that an indemnifying party may not have the financial ability to fulfill its indemnification obligations. PAREXEL could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with an uninsured claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity or where the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms. We currently maintain an errors and omissions professional liability insurance policy, subject to deductibles and coverage limits. There can be no assurance that this insurance coverage will be adequate, or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to PAREXEL. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet website is http://www.parexel.com. We make available through this website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange. We make these reports available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Any materials we file with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on the SEC’s Internet website at www.sec.gov. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. These risk factors could cause actual results to differ from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this report, including in the section of this report entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and other forward-looking statements that we may make from time to time. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations would likely suffer. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risk to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. The loss, modification, or delay of large or multiple contracts may negatively impact our financial performance. Our clients generally can terminate their contracts with us upon 30 to 60 days’ notice or can delay the execution of services. The loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our operating results, possibly materially. We have in the past experienced contract cancellations, which have adversely affected our operating results, including cancellations of a Phase III contract during the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2008 and a Phase III contract during the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2007. Clients terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including: • failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements; • failure of products being tested to satisfy efficacy criteria; • products having unexpected or undesired clinical results; • client cost reductions as a result of budgetary limit or changing priorities; • client decisions to forego a particular study, perhaps for economic reasons; • merger or potential merger related activities involving the client; • insufficient patient enrollment in a study; • insufficient investigator recruitment; • clinical drug manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the product; • product withdrawal following market launch; and • shut down of manufacturing facilities. 16 Table of Contents We face intense competition in many areas of our business; if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive and we face numerous competitors in many areas of our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer. We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, other full service clinical research organizations (“CROs”), small specialty CROs, and to a lesser extent, universities, teaching hospitals, and other site organizations. Some of the larger CROs against which we compete include Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance, Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., and Icon plc. In addition, our PCMS business competes with a large and fragmented group of specialty service providers, including advertising/promotional companies, major consulting firms with pharmaceutical industry groups and smaller companies with pharmaceutical industry focus. Perceptive competes primarily with CROs, information technology companies and other software companies. Some of these competitors, including the in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, have greater capital, technical and other resources than we have. In addition, our competitors that are smaller specialized companies may compete effectively against us because of their concentrated size and focus. The fixed rate nature of our contracts could hurt our operating results. Approximately 90% of our contracts are fixed rate. If we fail to adequately price our contracts or if we experience significant cost overruns, our gross margins on the contracts would be reduced and we could lose money on contracts. In the past, we have had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. We might experience similar situations in the future. If governmental regulation of the drug, medical device and biotechnology industry changes, the need for our services could decrease. Governmental regulation of the drug, medical device and biotechnology product development process is complicated, extensive, and demanding. A large part of our business involves assisting pharmaceutical and biotechnology and medical device companies through the regulatory approval process. Changes in regulations, that, for example, streamline procedures or relax approval standards, could eliminate or reduce the need for our services. If companies regulated by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities needed fewer of our services, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues would decrease, possibly materially. In the United States, the FDA and the Congress have attempted to streamline the regulatory process by providing for industry user fees that fund the hiring of additional reviewers and better management of the regulatory review process. In Europe, governmental authorities have approved common standards for clinical testing of new drugs throughout the European Union by adopting standards for GCP and by making the clinical trial application and approval process more uniform across member states. The FDA has had GCP in place as a regulatory standard and requirement for new drug approval for many years and Japan adopted GCP in 1998. The United States, Europe and Japan have also collaborated for over 15 years on the International Conference on Harmonisation (“ICH”), the purpose of which is to eliminate duplicative or conflicting regulations in the three regions. The ICH partners have agreed upon a common format (the Common Technical Document) for new drug marketing applications that reduces the need to tailor the format to each region. Such efforts and similar efforts in the future that streamline the regulatory process may reduce the demand for our services. Parts of our PCMS business advise clients on how to satisfy regulatory standards for manufacturing and clinical processes and on other matters related to the enforcement of government regulations by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Any reduction in levels of review of manufacturing or clinical processes or levels of regulatory enforcement, generally, would result in fewer business opportunities for our business in this area. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with existing regulations, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Our business is subject to numerous governmental regulations, primarily relating to worldwide pharmaceutical and medical device product development and regulatory approval and the conduct of clinical trials. If we fail to comply with these governmental regulations, it could result in the termination of our ongoing research, development or sales and marketing projects, or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. We also could be barred from providing clinical trial services in the future or could be subjected to fines. Any of these consequences would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. In addition, we may have to repeat research or redo trials. If we are required to repeat research or redo trials, we may be contractually required to do so at no further cost to our clients, but at substantial cost to us. We may lose business opportunities as a result of health care reform and the expansion of managed-care organizations. Numerous governments, including the U.S. government, have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has reviewed several comprehensive health care reform proposals. The proposals are intended to expand health care coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total health care expenditures. The U.S. Congress has also considered and may adopt legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. If these efforts are successful, drug, medical device and biotechnology companies may react by spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenue could decrease, possibly materially. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. In addition to health care reform proposals, the expansion of managed-care organizations in the health care market and managed-care organizations’ efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenue could decrease, possibly materially. Because we depend on a small number of industries and clients for all of our business, the loss of business from a significant client could harm our business, revenue and financial condition. The loss of, or a material reduction in the business of, a significant client could cause a substantial decrease in our revenue and adversely affect our business and financial condition, possibly materially. In Fiscal Years 2008, 2007, and 2006, our five largest clients accounted for approximately 31%, 28%, and 25% of our consolidated service revenue, respectively. We expect that a small number of clients will continue to represent a significant part of our consolidated revenue. Our contracts with these clients generally can be terminated on short notice. We have in the past experienced contract cancellations with significant clients. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our products and services may become less competitive or obsolete, especially in our Perceptive business. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally, and clinical research specifically, are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, products or services, or render our technologies, products or services less competitive or obsolete. If our competitors introduce superior technologies, products or services and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, products and services necessary to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue. 18 Table of Contents If our Perceptive business is unable to maintain continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of its computer hardware, software and internet applications and related tools and functions, its business will be harmed. Our Perceptive business involves collecting, managing, manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating data via the Internet. In our Perceptive business, we depend on the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunication networks, Internet servers and related infrastructure. If the hardware or software malfunctions or access to data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, our Perceptive business could suffer. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by third parties could adversely impact our Perceptive business. Although the computer and communications hardware used in our Perceptive business is protected through physical and software safeguards, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, and similar events. In addition, the Perceptive software products are complex and sophisticated, and could contain data, design or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. If Perceptive fails to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support the needs of our Perceptive customers, it could result in a loss of or a delay in revenue and market acceptance. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. If we cannot retain our highly qualified management and technical personnel, our business would be harmed. We rely on the expertise of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Josef H. von Rickenbach, and it would be difficult and expensive to find a qualified replacement with the level of specialized knowledge of our products and services and the biopharmaceutical services industry. While we are a party to an employment agreement with Mr. von Rickenbach, it may be terminated by us or Mr. von Rickenbach upon notice to the other party. In addition, in order to compete effectively, we must attract and maintain qualified sales, professional, scientific, and technical operating personnel. Competition for these skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. We may not be successful in attracting or retaining key personnel. If we are unable to attract suitable willing investigators and volunteers for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. The clinical research studies we run in our CRS segment rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and volunteer subjects. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of the study drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Volunteer subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted. Our clinical research development business could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or volunteers on a consistent basis. We may have substantial exposure to payment of personal injury claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover such claims. Our CRS business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and medical devices on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. Clinical research involves a risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients who participate in the study or who use a product approved by regulatory authorities after the clinical research has concluded, due to, among other reasons, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the drug or device by physicians. In some cases, these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. 19 Table of Contents In order to mitigate the risk of liability, we seek to include indemnity provisions in our CRS contracts with clients and with investigators. However, we are not able to include indemnity provisions in all of our contracts. In addition, even if we are able to include an indemnity provision in our contracts, the indemnity provisions may not cover our exposure if: • we had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity agreement; or • a client failed to indemnify us in accordance with the terms of an indemnity agreement because it did not have the financial ability to fulfill its indemnification obligation or for any other reason. In addition, contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We also carry insurance to cover our risk of liability. However, our insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover claims. In addition, liability coverage is expensive. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain liability insurance on reasonable terms, at a reasonable cost, or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to claims. In March 2006, we conducted a Phase I clinical trial on behalf of TeGenero AG, a German pharmaceutical company. During the trial, six participants experienced adverse reactions to the TeGenero compound being tested. Through June 30, 2008, we have recorded approximately $1.8 million in legal fees and other incremental costs in connection with the incident. To date, none of the participants in the clinical trial have filed suit against us. We carry insurance to cover risks such as this, but our insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover claims against us. While we believe that TeGenero is responsible to indemnify us with respect to claims related to this matter, TeGenero filed for insolvency in July 2006, which likely will limit any recovery of our legal fees and costs from them. In addition, while TeGenero carried insurance with respect to this type of matter, this insurance also is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Our business is subject to international economic, political, and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position. We provide most of our services on a worldwide basis. Our service revenue from non-U.S. operations represented approximately 65.5% and 64.0% of total consolidated service revenue for the twelve months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. More specifically, our service revenue from operations in Europe, Middle East and Africa represented 53.5% and 55.5% of total consolidated service revenue for the corresponding periods. Our service revenue from operations in the Asia/Pacific region represented 7.4% and 5.4% of total consolidated service revenue for the respective periods. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, including Western Europe, in particular; • potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • unfavorable labor regulations applicable to our European or other international operations; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions. 20 Table of Contents Our revenue and earnings are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. We conduct a significant portion of our operations in foreign countries. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have and have had a significant effect on our operating results. For example, as a result of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuation, service revenue for the twelve months ended June 30, 2008 was positively impacted by approximately $51.7 million as compared with the same period in the previous year. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar create risk in several ways, including: • Foreign Currency Translation Risk. The revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies, primarily the pound sterling and the Euro, and are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, 14.9% and 16.0% of consolidated service revenue was denominated in pounds sterling, respectively. Euro denominated revenues were approximately 27.1% and 28.9% for the same periods. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of foreign results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. • Foreign Currency Transaction Risk. We may be subjected to foreign currency transaction risk when our foreign subsidiaries enter into contracts or incur liabilities denominated in a currency other than the foreign subsidiaries functional (local) currency. To the extent we are unable to shift the effects of currency fluctuations to the clients, foreign exchange fluctuations as a result of foreign currency exchange losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although we try to limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or by hedging transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts, we may still experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside of the U.S., and may not be able to favorably reduce the currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. Our operating results have fluctuated between quarters and years and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which could affect the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied and will continue to vary in the future as a result of a variety of factors. For example, our income from operations totaled $26.9 million for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, and $22.7 million, $20.5, and $16.5 million for three preceding quarters. Factors that cause these variations include: • the level of new business authorizations in a particular quarter or year; • the timing of the initiation, progress, or cancellation of significant projects; • exchange rate fluctuations between quarters or years; • restructuring charges; • seasonality; • the mix of services offered in a particular quarter or year; • the timing of the opening of new offices; • timing, costs and the related financial impact of acquisitions; • the timing of internal expansion; • the timing and amount of costs associated with integrating acquisitions; • the timing and amount of startup costs incurred in connection with the introduction of new products, services or subsidiaries; and • the dollar amount of changes in contract scope finalized during a particular period. 21 Table of Contents Many of these factors, such as the timing of cancellations of significant projects and exchange rate fluctuations between quarters or years, are beyond our control. If our operating results do not match the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock will likely decrease. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. As of August 27, 2008, we had approximately $270 million principal amount of debt outstanding and remaining borrowing availability of approximately $45 million under our revolving line of credit (subject to certain increases as provided in the facility agreement). We may incur additional debt in the future. Our leverage could have significant adverse consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on, and principal of, our debt, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Under the terms of the credit facility we entered into in June 2008, interest rates are fixed based on market indices at the time of borrowing and, depending upon the interest mechanism selected by us, may float thereafter. Some of our other smaller credit facilities also bear interest at floating rates. As a result, the amount of interest payable by us on our borrowings may increase if market interest rates change. We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the amounts due under our existing or any future debt. In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under our existing debt instruments could result in an event of default under those instruments. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our debt instruments as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments. The covenants under our existing debt instruments limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. In addition, the terms of the credit facility we entered into in June 2008 provide that upon the occurrence of a change in control, as defined in the credit facility agreement, all outstanding indebtedness under the facility would become due. This provision may delay or prevent a change in control that stockholders may consider desirable. As of August 27, 2008, we had approximately $270 million principal amount of debt outstanding under this facility. 22 Table of Contents Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter, which may affect our earnings and earnings per share. Our quarterly effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. Factors that affect the effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: • the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no tax benefit can be recognized; • actual and projected full year pretax income; • changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions; • audits by taxing authorities; and • the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that future tax benefits will not be realized. Fluctuations in our effective income tax rate could cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share, which can affect our stock price. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. As of June 30, 2008, our total assets included $182 million of goodwill and net intangible assets. We assess the realizability of our net intangible assets and goodwill annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. These cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. If we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past and such expansion and any future expansion could strain our resources if not properly managed. We have expanded our business substantially in the past. For example, in August 2008, we completed the acquisition of ClinPhone, a leading clinical technology organization, for a purchase price of approximately $192 million, comprised of $172 million for the stock of ClinPhone and $20 million as repayment to ClinPhone’s existing debt. Future rapid expansion could strain our operational, human and financial resources. In order to manage expansion, we must: • continue to improve operating, administrative, and information systems; • accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet client contract commitments; • track the progress of ongoing client projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. If we do not take these actions and are not able to manage the expanded business, the expanded business may be less successful than anticipated, and we may be required to allocate additional resources to the expanded business, which we would have otherwise allocated to another part of our business. 23 Table of Contents We may face additional risks in expanding our foreign operations. Specifically, we may find it difficult to: • assimilate differences in foreign business practices, exchange rates and regulatory requirements; • operate amid political and economic instability; • hire and retain qualified personnel; and • overcome language, tariff and other barriers. We may make acquisitions in the future, which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. We have made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to our business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: • assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company; • integrate acquired personnel; • retain and motivate key employees; • retain customers; • identify and manage risks facing the acquired company; and • minimize the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Acquisitions of foreign companies may also involve additional risks, including assimilating differences in foreign business practices and overcoming language and cultural barriers. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. Our corporate governance structure, including provisions of our articles of organization, by-laws, shareholder rights plan, as well as Massachusetts law, may delay or prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable. Provisions of our articles of organization, by-laws and our shareholder rights plan, as well as provisions of Massachusetts law, may enable our management to resist acquisition of us by a third party, or may discourage a third party from acquiring us. These provisions include the following: • we have divided our board of directors into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms; • we are subject to Section 8.06 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Law, which provides that directors may only be removed by stockholders for cause, vacancies in our board of directors may only be filled by a vote of our board of directors, and the number of directors may be fixed only by our board of directors; • we are subject to Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws, which may limit the ability of some interested stockholders to engage in business combinations with us; • our stockholders are limited in their ability to call or introduce proposals at stockholder meetings; and • our shareholder rights plan would cause a proposed acquirer of 20% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock to suffer significant dilution. 24 Table of Contents These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our stock. In addition, our board of directors may issue preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval. If our board of directors issues preferred stock, the holders of common stock would be subordinate to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our board of directors’ ability to issue the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our stock. Our stock price has been and may in the future be volatile, which could lead to losses by investors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may continue to do so in the future. On August 12, 2008, the closing sales price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $33.18. During the period from July 1, 2006 to June 30, 2008, our common stock traded at split adjusted prices ranging from a high of $29.76 per share to a low of $13.38 per share. Investors in our common stock must be willing to bear the risk of such fluctuations in stock price and the risk that the value of an investment in our stock could decline. Our stock price can be affected by quarter-to-quarter variations in a number of factors including, but not limited to: • operating results; • earnings estimates by analysts; • market conditions in the industry; • prospects of health care reform; • changes in government regulations; • general economic conditions, and • our effective income tax rate. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Since our common stock has traded in the past at a relatively high price-earnings multiple, due in part to analysts’ expectations of earnings growth, the price of the stock could quickly and substantially decline as a result of even a relatively small shortfall in earnings from, or a change in, analysts’ expectations. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 