ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risk to our business at this time also may impair our business operations.Risks Associated with our Business and OperationsThe loss, modification, or delay of large or multiple contracts may negatively impact our financial performance.Our clients generally can terminate their contracts with us upon 30 to 60 days notice or can delay the execution of services. The loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our operating results, possibly materially. We have in the past experienced large contract cancellations and delays, which have adversely affected our operating results.Clients may terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including:•failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements;•failure of products being tested to satisfy efficacy criteria;•products having unexpected or undesired clinical results;•client cost reductions as a result of budgetary limits or changing priorities;•client decisions to forego a particular study, perhaps for economic reasons;•merger or potential merger related activities involving the client;•insufficient patient enrollment in a study;•insufficient investigator recruitment;•clinical drug manufacturing problems resulting in shortages of the product;•product withdrawal following market launch; and•shut down of manufacturing facilities.The current economic environment may negatively impact our financial performance as a result of client defaults and other factors.Our ability to attract and retain clients, invest in and grow our business and meet our financial obligations depends on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to numerous factors. In addition to factors specific to our business, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control can also affect us, including, but not limited to, the current Greek debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, demand for our services could decline, and we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We cannot anticipate all the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact our business.We are exposed to risks associated with reduced profitability and the potential financial instability of our clients, many of whom may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets, the economy in general and disruptions to the demand for health care services and pharmaceuticals. These conditions could cause clients to experience reduced profitability and/or cash flow problems that could lead them to modify, delay or cancel contracts with us, including contracts included in our current backlog.Some of our clients are not revenue-generating entities at this time and rely upon equity and debt investments and other external sources of capital to meet their cash requirements. Due to the poor condition of the current global economy and other factors outside of our control, these clients may lack the funds necessary to pay outstanding liabilities due to us, despite contractual obligations. For example, in the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2009, one of our biopharma clients informed us that it had encountered funding difficulties when one of its major investors defaulted on a contractual investment commitment, and that, as a result, the client would be unable to make payments due to us in connection with an on-going service contract for a large Phase III clinical trial. Consequently, we recorded approximately $14.0 million in reserves related to this late-stage trial, including $12.3 million in bad debt reserves. In Fiscal Year 2012, we recovered $2.3 million of proceeds from the final bankruptcy settlement. It is possible that similar situations could arise in the future, and such defaults could negatively affect our financial performance, possibly materially.13We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations.In October 2009, we adopted a plan to restructure our operations to reduce expenses, better align costs with current and future geographic sources of revenue, and improve operating efficiencies. During Fiscal Year 2010, we recorded $16.8 million in restructuring charges related to this plan, including approximately $11.6 million in employee separation benefits associated with the elimination of 238 managerial and staff positions and $5.2 million in costs related to the abandonment of certain property leases.In April 2011, we adopted a plan to restructure our operations to reduce expenses, better align costs with current and future geographic sources of revenue, and improve operating efficiencies. The plan focused primarily on the Early Phase business and corporate functions and was completed in the third quarter of Fiscal Year 2012. The total cost of the plan was approximately $15.8 million and included the elimination of approximately 150 managerial and staff positions and the abandonment of certain property leases. Although we expect that all costs associated with these restructuring plans have been recorded as of June 30, 2012, if we incur additional restructuring charges, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.Restructuring also presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur.The fixed price nature of our contracts could hurt our operating results.Approximately 90% of our contracts are fixed price. If we fail to accurately price our contracts, or if we experience significant cost overruns that are not recovered from our clients, our gross margins on the contracts would be reduced and we could lose money on contracts. In the past, we have had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. We might experience similar situations in the future.If we are unable to attract suitable investigators and volunteers for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer.The clinical research studies we run in our CRS segment rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of physician investigators and volunteer subjects. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of the study drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Volunteer subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted, and the rate of completion of clinical trials is significantly dependent upon the rate of participant enrollment.Our clinical research development business could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or volunteers on a consistent basis. If we are unable to obtain sufficient patient enrollment or investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned, we might need to expend substantial additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve projected development timelines as agreed with sponsors. In rare cases, it potentially may even lead us to recommend that trial sponsors terminate ongoing clinical trials or development of a product for a particular indication.If our Perceptive business is unable to maintain continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of its computer hardware, software and internet applications and related tools and functions, its business will be harmed.Our Perceptive business involves collecting, managing, manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating data via the Internet. In our Perceptive business, we depend on the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunication networks, Internet servers and related infrastructure. If the hardware or software malfunctions or access to data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, our Perceptive business could suffer. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by third parties could adversely impact our Perceptive business.Although the computer and communications hardware used in our Perceptive business is protected through physical and software safeguards, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, and similar events. And while certain of our operations have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have redundant facilities everywhere in the world to provide IT capacity in the event of a system failure. In addition, the Perceptive software products are complex and sophisticated, and could contain data, design or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. If Perceptive fails to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support the needs of our Perceptive customers, it could result in a loss of or a delay in revenue and market acceptance. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements or inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage our reputation and harm our business.Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation 14of hostilities, and acts of terrorism (particularly in areas where we have offices) could adversely affect our businesses. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.Our business is subject to international economic, political, and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations or financial position.We provide most of our services on a worldwide basis. Our service revenue from non-U.S. operations represented approximately 58.4% and 63.6% of total consolidated service revenue for Fiscal Year 2012 and Fiscal Year 2011, respectively. More specifically, our service revenue from operations in Europe, Middle East and Africa represented 39.8% and 45.7% of total consolidated service revenue for the corresponding periods. Our service revenue from operations in the Asia/Pacific region represented 14.7% and 14.3% of total consolidated service revenue for the respective periods. Accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including:•changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, including Western Europe, in particular;•potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our ability to repatriate profits;•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;•unfavorable labor regulations applicable to our European or other international operations;•changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and•the need to ensure compliance with the numerous regulatory and legal requirements applicable to our business in each of these jurisdictions and to maintain an effective compliance program to ensure compliance.Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American, European and Asian economies, among others. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions that cause a decline in business and consumer spending, including a reduction in the availability of credit, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and recession.If we cannot retain our highly qualified management and technical personnel, our business would be harmed.We rely on the expertise of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Josef H. von Rickenbach, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Mark A. Goldberg, and it would be difficult and expensive to find qualified replacements with the level of specialized knowledge of our products and services and the biopharmaceutical services industry. While we are a party to an employment agreement with Mr. von Rickenbach, it may be terminated by either party upon notice to the counterparty.In addition, in order to compete effectively, we must attract and retain qualified sales, professional, scientific, and technical operating personnel. Competition for these skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. We may not be successful in attracting or retaining key personnel.Changes to our computer operating systems, programs or software could adversely impact our business.We may make changes to our existing computer operating systems, programs and/or software in an effort to increase our operating efficiency and/or deliver better value to our clients. Such changes may cause disruptions to our operations and have an adverse impact on our business in the short term.Risks Associated with our Financial ResultsOur operating results have fluctuated between quarters and years and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which could affect the price of our common stock.Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied and will continue to vary in the future as a result of a variety of factors. For example, our income from operations totaled $25.5 million for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2012, $28.2 million for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012, $22.6 million for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011, $12.5 million for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011, and $1.6 million for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011. Factors that cause these variations include:•the level of new business authorizations in particular quarters or years;•the timing of the initiation, progress, or cancellation of significant projects;•exchange rate fluctuations between quarters or years;•restructuring charges;•the mix of services offered in a particular quarter or year;15•the timing of the opening of new offices or internal expansion;•timing, costs and the related financial impact of acquisitions;•the timing and amount of costs associated with integrating acquisitions;•the timing and amount of startup costs incurred in connection with the introduction of new products, services or subsidiaries;•the dollar amount of changes in contract scope finalized during a particular period; and•the amount of any reserves we are required to record.Many of these factors, such as the timing of cancellations of significant projects and exchange rate fluctuations between quarters or years, are beyond our control.If our operating results do not match the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock will likely decrease.Backlog may not result in revenue and the rate at which backlog converts into revenue may be slower than historical conversion rates.Our backlog is not necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results because backlog can be affected by a number of factors, including the size and duration of contracts, many of which are performed over several years. Additionally, as described above, contracts relating to our clinical development business are subject to early termination by the client, and clinical trials can be delayed or canceled for many reasons, including unexpected test results, safety concerns, regulatory developments or economic issues. Also, the scope of a contract can be reduced significantly during the course of a study. If the scope of a contract is revised, the adjustment to backlog occurs when the revised scope is approved by the client. For these and other reasons, we do not fully realize our entire backlog as net revenue.In addition, the rate at which our backlog converts into revenue may slow. A slowdown in this conversion rate means that the rate of revenue recognized on contract awards may be slower than what we have experienced in the past, particularly in connection with the ramp-up and initiation of strategic partnerships, which could impact our net revenue and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The rate of conversion of backlog from strategic partnerships into revenue has been slower than that experienced historically from traditional client contracts.Our revenue and earnings are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which has substantially affected our operating results.We conduct a significant portion of our operations in foreign countries. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have and have had a significant effect on our operating results. For example, as a result of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuation, service revenue for Fiscal Year 2012 was positively impacted by approximately $3.2 million as compared with the same period in the previous year. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar create risk in several ways, including:•Foreign Currency Translation Risk. The revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies, primarily the pound sterling and the Euro, and are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. For Fiscal Year 2012 and Fiscal Year 2011, approximately 19.5% and 24.6% of consolidated service revenue, respectively, was from contracts denominated in Euros and service revenue from contracts denominated in pounds sterling was 3.9% and 5.5%, respectively. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the translation of foreign results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results.•Foreign Currency Transaction Risk. We may be subjected to foreign currency transaction risk when our foreign subsidiaries enter into contracts or incur liabilities denominated in a currency other than the foreign subsidiary's functional (local) currency. To the extent that we are unable to shift the effects of currency fluctuations to our clients, foreign exchange rate fluctuations as a result of foreign currency exchange losses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Although we try to limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts or by hedging transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts, we do not succeed in all cases. Even in those cases where we are successful, we may still experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside of the U.S., and we may not be able to favorably reduce the currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts.16Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may affect our earnings and earnings per share.Our quarterly effective income tax rate is influenced by our annual projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. Factors that affect the effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to:•the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no tax benefit can be recognized;•actual and projected full year pretax income;•changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions;•audits by taxing authorities; and•the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that future tax benefits will not be realized.These changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could cause fluctuation in our earnings and earnings per share, which could affect our stock price.Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets.As of June 30, 2012, our total assets included $325.5 million of goodwill and net intangible assets. We assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired. These events or changes in circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset. Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. These cash flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. If we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets.Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past and such expansion and any future expansion could strain our resources if not properly managed.We have expanded our business substantially in the past. For example, in August 2008, we completed the acquisition of ClinPhone, a leading clinical technology organization, for a purchase price of approximately $190 million. Future rapid expansion could strain our operational, human and financial resources. In order to manage expansion, we must:•continue to improve operating, administrative, and information systems;•accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet client contract commitments;•track the progress of ongoing client projects; and•attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel.If we do not take these actions and are not able to manage the expanded business, the expanded business may be less successful than anticipated, and we may be required to allocate additional resources to the expanded business, which we would have otherwise allocated to another part of our business.If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to our business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to:•assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company;•integrate acquired personnel;•retain and motivate key employees;•retain customers;•identify and manage risks facing the acquired company; and•minimize the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns.Acquisitions of foreign companies may also involve additional risks, including assimilating differences in foreign business practices and overcoming language and cultural barriers.In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business.17Risks Associated with our IndustryWe depend on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, either or both of which may suffer in the short or long term.Our revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. In some instances, companies in these industries are reliant on their ability to raise capital in order to fund their research and development projects. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect our business. If companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they conduct or outsource, our business could be materially adversely affected.In addition, we are dependent upon the ability and willingness of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the services that we provide. We are therefore subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries. We have benefited to date from the tendency of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource clinical research projects, but any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business. For example, if these companies expanded upon their in-house clinical or development capabilities, they would be less likely to utilize our services.Because we depend on a small number of industries and clients for all of our business, the loss of business from a significant client could harm our business, revenue and financial condition.The loss of, or a material reduction in the business of, a significant client could cause a substantial decrease in our revenue and adversely affect our business and financial condition, possibly materially. In Fiscal Years 2012, 2011, and 2010, our five largest clients accounted for approximately 41%, 35%, and 27% of our consolidated service revenue, respectively. We expect that a small number of clients will continue to represent a significant part of our consolidated revenue. This concentration may increase as a result of the increasing number of strategic partnerships into which we have been entering with sponsors. Our contracts with these clients generally can be terminated on short notice. We have in the past experienced contract cancellations with significant clients.In addition, the portion of our backlog that consists of large, multi-year awards from strategic partnerships has grown in recent years and this trend may continue in the future. A higher concentration of backlog from strategic partnerships may result in an imbalance across our project portfolio among projects in the start-up phase, which typically generate lower revenue, and projects in later stages, which typically generate higher revenue. This in turn may cause fluctuations in our revenue and profitability from period to period.We face intense competition in many areas of our business; if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed.The biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive and we face numerous competitors in many areas of our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we may lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer.We primarily compete against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, other full service clinical research organizations (“CROs”), small specialty CROs, and, to a lesser extent, universities, teaching hospitals, and other site organizations. Some of the larger CROs against which we compete include Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance, Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., and Icon plc. In addition, our PCMS business competes with a large and fragmented group of specialty service providers, including advertising/promotional companies, major consulting firms with pharmaceutical industry groups and smaller companies with pharmaceutical industry focus. Perceptive competes primarily with CROs, information technology companies and other software companies. Some of these competitors, including the in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, have greater capital, technical and other resources than we have. In addition, our competitors that are smaller specialized companies may compete effectively against us because of their concentrated size and focus.In recent years, a number of the large pharmaceutical companies have established formal or informal alliances with one or more CROs relating to the provision of services for multiple trials over extended time periods. Our success depends in part on successfully establishing and maintaining these relationships. If we fail to do so, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected, possibly materially.If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our products and services may become less competitive or obsolete, especially in our Perceptive business.The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally, and clinical research specifically, are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, products or services, or render our technologies, products or services less competitive or obsolete. If our competitors introduce superior technologies, products or services and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, products and services necessary to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract 18new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue.Risks Associated with Regulation or Legal LiabilitiesIf governmental regulation of the drug, medical device and biotechnology industry changes, the need for our services could decrease.Governmental regulation of the drug, medical device and biotechnology product development process is complicated, extensive, and demanding. A large part of our business involves assisting pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies through the regulatory approval process. Changes in regulations that, for example, streamline procedures or relax approval standards, could eliminate or reduce the need for our services. If companies regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) or similar foreign regulatory authorities needed fewer of our services, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenues would decrease, possibly materially.In the United States, the FDA and the Congress have attempted to streamline the regulatory process by providing for industry user fees that fund the hiring of additional reviewers and better management of the regulatory review process. In Europe, governmental authorities have approved common standards for clinical testing of new drugs throughout the European Union by adopting standards for Good Clinical Practices (“GCP”) and by making the clinical trial application and approval process more uniform across member states. The FDA has had GCP in place as a regulatory standard and requirement for new drug approval for many years and Japan adopted GCP in 1998.The United States, Europe and Japan have also collaborated for over 15 years on the International Conference on Harmonisation (“ICH”), the purpose of which is to eliminate duplicative or conflicting regulations in the three regions. The ICH partners have agreed upon a common format (the Common Technical Document) for new drug marketing applications that reduces the need to tailor the format to each region. Such efforts and similar efforts in the future that streamline the regulatory process may reduce the demand for our services.Parts of our PCMS business advise clients on how to satisfy regulatory standards for manufacturing and clinical processes and on other matters related to the enforcement of government regulations by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Any reduction in levels of review of manufacturing or clinical processes or levels of regulatory enforcement, generally, would result in fewer business opportunities for our business in this area.If we fail to comply with existing regulations, our reputation and operating results would be harmed.Our business is subject to numerous governmental regulations, primarily relating to worldwide pharmaceutical and medical device product development and regulatory approval and the conduct of clinical trials. In addition, we may be obligated to comply with or to assist our clients in complying with regulations that apply to our clients, including the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which will require manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report all payments or transfers of value to health care providers and teaching hospitals. If we fail to comply with these governmental regulations, such non-compliance could result in the termination of our ongoing research, development or sales and marketing projects, or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. We also could be barred from providing clinical trial services in the future or could be subjected to fines. Any of these consequences would harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. In addition, we may have to repeat research or redo trials. If we are required to repeat research or redo trials, we may be contractually required to do so at no further cost to our clients, but at substantial cost to us.We may lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform and the expansion of managed-care organizations.Numerous governments, including the U.S. government, have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted healthcare reform legislation intended over time to expand health insurance coverage and impose health industry cost containment measures. This legislation may significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry. The U.S. Congress has also considered and may adopt legislation that could have the effect of putting downward pressure on the prices that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for prescription drugs. In addition, various state legislatures and European and Asian governments may consider various types of healthcare reform in order to control growing healthcare costs. We are presently uncertain as to the effects of the recently enacted legislation on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any.If these efforts are successful, drug, medical device and biotechnology companies may react by spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenue could decrease, possibly materially. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings.In addition to healthcare reform proposals, the expansion of managed-care organizations in the healthcare market and managed-care organizations’ efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities and our revenue could decrease, possibly materially.19We may have substantial exposure to payment of personal injury claims and may not have adequate insurance to cover such claims.Our CRS business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and medical devices on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. Clinical research involves a risk of liability for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to:•personal injury or death to patients who participate in the study or who use a product approved by regulatory authorities after the clinical research has concluded;•general risks associated with clinical pharmacology facilities, including professional malpractice of clinical pharmacology medical care providers; and•errors and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or data from the trial or study.In order to mitigate the risk of liability, we seek to include indemnification provisions in our CRS contracts with clients and with investigators. However, we are not able to include indemnification provisions in all of our contracts. In addition, even if we are able to include an indemnification provision in our contracts, the indemnification provisions may not cover our exposure if:•we had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnification agreement; or•a client failed to indemnify us in accordance with the terms of an indemnification agreement because it did not have the financial ability to fulfill its indemnification obligation or for any other reason.In addition, contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct.We also carry insurance to cover our risk of liability. However, our insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover claims. In addition, liability coverage is expensive. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain the same levels of coverage on reasonable terms, at a reasonable cost, or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to claims.Existing and proposed laws and regulations regarding confidentiality of patients’ and other individuals’ personal information could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our product and service offerings.The confidentiality, security, use and disclosure of patient-specific information are subject to governmental regulation. Regulations to protect the safety and privacy of human subjects who participate in or whose data are used in clinical research generally require clinical investigators to obtain affirmative informed consent from identifiable research subjects before research is undertaken. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has issued regulations mandating privacy and security protections for certain types of individually identifiable health information, or protected health information, when used or disclosed by health care providers and other HIPAA-covered entities or business associates that provide services to or perform functions on behalf of these covered entities. HIPAA regulations generally require individuals’ written authorization before identifiable health information may be used for research, in addition to any required informed consent. HIPAA regulations also specify standards for de-identifying health information so that information can be handled outside of the HIPAA requirements and for creating limited data sets that can be used for research purposes under less stringent HIPAA restrictions. The European Union and its member states, as well as other countries, such as Canada, Argentina, Japan and other Asian countries, and state governments in the United States, have adopted and continue to issue new medical privacy and general data protection laws and regulations. In those countries, collecting, processing, using and transferring an individual’s personal data is subject to specific requirements, such as obtaining explicit consent, processing the information for limited purposes and restrictions with respect to cross-border transfers. Many countries and almost all states in the United States have adopted stringent data security breach laws that require the user of such data to inform the affected individuals and the authorities of security breaches. In order to comply with these laws and regulations and corresponding contractual demands from our clients, we must maintain internal compliance policies and procedures, and we may need to implement new privacy and security measures, which may require us to make substantial expenditures or cause us to limit the products and services we offer. In addition, if we violate applicable laws, regulations, contractual commitments, or other duties relating to the use, privacy or security of health information, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal penalties and it may be necessary to modify our business practices.20Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and delays in completing our internal controls and financial audits, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, and delays in completing our internal controls and financial audits, could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and PAREXEL, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise equity financing if needed in the future. Our Fiscal Year 2009 management assessment revealed a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting due to insufficient controls associated with accounting for the ClinPhone business combination, specifically the adoption by ClinPhone of an accounting policy for revenue recognition in accordance with U.S. GAAP for interactive voice response ("IVR") sales contracts with multiple revenue elements and the determination of the fair value of deferred revenue assumed in the business combination. We have since changed our internal controls to address this material weakness, but we have not yet tested the effectiveness of our remediation since we have not completed any further acquisitions. There can be no assurance that our remediation will be successful. During the course of our continued testing, we also may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the ones already identified, which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner or at all.We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, anti-corruption laws have appeared to conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by persons associated with PAREXEL. Our continued global expansion, including in developing countries, could increase such risk in the future. Violations of these laws, or even allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.Risks Associated with LeverageOur indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business.As of June 30, 2012, we had $220.0 million principal amount of debt outstanding and remaining borrowing availability of $175.0 million under our lines of credit. We may incur additional debt in the future. Our leverage could have significant adverse consequences, including:•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on, and principal of, our debt, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes;•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.Under the terms of our various credit facilities, interest rates are fixed based on market indices at the time of borrowing and, depending upon the interest mechanism selected by us, may float thereafter. Some of our other smaller credit facilities also bear interest at floating rates. As a result, the amount of interest payable by us on our borrowings may increase if market interest rates change.We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the amounts due under our existing or any future debt. In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under our existing debt instruments could result in an event of default under those instruments. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our debt instruments as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments.In addition, the terms of the 2011 Credit Agreement provide that upon the occurrence of a change in control, as defined in the credit facility agreement, all outstanding indebtedness under the facility would become due. This provision may delay or prevent a change in control that stockholders may consider desirable.21Our existing debt instruments contain covenants that limit our flexibility and prevent us from taking certain actions.The agreements in connection with our 2011 Credit Agreement include a number of significant restrictive covenants. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet our capital needs and execute our business strategy. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to:•incur additional debt;•make certain investments;•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•make specified restricted payments; and•sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies.These covenants may limit our operating and financial flexibility and limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their scheduled due date.Risks Associated with our Common StockOur corporate governance structure, including provisions of our articles of organization, by-laws, shareholder rights plan, as well as Massachusetts law, may delay or prevent a change in control or management that stockholders may consider desirable.Provisions of our articles of organization, by-laws and our shareholder rights plan, as well as provisions of Massachusetts law, may enable our management to resist acquisition of us by a third party, or may discourage a third party from acquiring us. These provisions include the following:•we have divided our board of directors into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms;•we are subject to Section 8.06 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Law, which provides that directors may only be removed by stockholders for cause, vacancies in our board of directors may only be filled by a vote of our board of directors, and the number of directors may be fixed only by our board of directors;•we are subject to Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws, which may limit the ability of some interested stockholders to engage in business combinations with us;•our stockholders are limited in their ability to call or introduce proposals at stockholder meetings; and•our shareholder rights plan would cause a proposed acquirer of 20% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock to suffer significant dilution.These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our stock.In addition, our board of directors may issue preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval. If our board of directors issues preferred stock, the rights of the holders of common stock would be subordinate to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our board of directors’ ability to issue the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our stock.Our stock price has been, and may in the future be volatile, which could lead to losses by investors.The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may continue to do so in the future. On August 14, 2012, the closing sales price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market was $26.98 per share. During the period from June 30, 2007 to June 30, 2012, our common stock traded at prices ranging from a high of $36.16 per share to a low of $6.11 per share. Investors in our common stock must be willing to bear the risk of such fluctuations in stock price and the risk that the value of an investment in our stock could decline.Our stock price can be affected by quarter-to-quarter variations in a number of factors including, but not limited to:•operating results;•earnings estimates by analysts;•market conditions in our industry;22•prospects of healthcare reform;•changes in government regulations;•general economic conditions, and•our effective income tax rate.In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Although our common stock has traded in the past at a relatively high price-earnings multiple, due in part to analysts’ expectations of earnings growth, the price of the stock could quickly and substantially decline as a result of even a relatively small shortfall in earnings from, or a change in, analysts’ expectations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.