RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. These risk factors could cause actual results to differ from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this report, including in the section of this report entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and other forward-looking statements that the Company may make from time to time. If any of the following risks occur, the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations would likely suffer. LOSS, MODIFICATION, OR DELAY OF LARGE OR MULTIPLE CONTRACTS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The Company's clients generally can terminate their contracts with the Company upon 30 to 60 days notice or can delay the execution of services. The loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect the Company's operating results, possibly materially. The Company has in the past experienced contract cancellations, which have adversely affected its operating results, including a major Phase III cancellation during the first quarter of this fiscal year. 14 Clients terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: - merger or potential merger related activities; - failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements; - failure of products being tested to prove effective; - products having unexpected or undesired clinical results; - client decisions to forego a particular study, perhaps for economic reasons; - insufficient patient enrollment in a study; - insufficient investigator recruitment; - production problems which cause shortages of the product; - product withdrawal following market launch; and - manufacturing facility shut down. In addition, the Company believes that companies regulated by the FDA may proceed with fewer clinical trials or conduct them without the assistance of bio/pharmaceutical services companies if they are trying to reduce costs as a result of budgetary limits or changing priorities. These factors may cause such companies to cancel contracts with bio/pharmaceutical services companies such as the Company. THE COMPANY FACES INTENSE COMPETITION IN MANY AREAS OF ITS BUSINESS; IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, ITS BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED The bio/pharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive and the Company faces numerous competitors in many areas of its business. If the Company fails to compete effectively it may lose clients, which would cause its business to suffer. CRS primarily competes against in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, other full service CROs, small specialty CROs, and to a lesser extent, universities, teaching hospitals, and other site organizations. Some of the larger CROs against which the Company competes include Quintiles Transnational Corporation, Covance, Inc. and Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. In addition, PAREXEL's PCMS business also competes with a large and fragmented group of specialty service providers, including advertising/promotional companies, major consulting firms with pharmaceutical industry groups and smaller companies with pharmaceutical industry focus. Perceptive competes primarily with CROs, information technology companies and other software companies. Some of these competitors, including the in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, have greater capital, technical and other resources than the Company. In addition, those of the Company's competitors that are smaller specialized companies may compete effectively against the Company because of their concentrated size and focus. THE FIXED RATE NATURE OF THE COMPANY'S CONTRACTS COULD HURT ITS OPERATING RESULTS Approximately 85.0% of the Company's contracts are fixed rate. If the Company fails to adequately price its contracts or if the Company experiences significant cost overruns, its gross margins on the contract would be reduced and the Company could lose money on contracts. In the past, the Company has had to commit unanticipated resources to complete projects, resulting in lower gross margins on those projects. The Company might experience similar situations in the future. IF GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION OF THE DRUG, MEDICAL DEVICE AND BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY CHANGES, THE NEED FOR THE COMPANY'S SERVICES COULD DECREASE Governmental regulation of the drug, medical device and biotechnology product development process is complicated, extensive, and demanding. A large part of the Company's business involves assisting pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies through the regulatory approval process. Changes in regulations, that, for example, streamline procedures or relax approval standards, could eliminate or reduce the need for the Company's services. If companies regulated by the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities needed fewer of PAREXEL's services, the Company would have fewer business opportunities and its revenues would decrease, possibly materially. 15 In the U.S., the FDA and the Congress have attempted to streamline the regulatory process by providing for industry user fees that fund additional reviewer hires and better management of the regulatory review process. In Europe, governmental authorities have approved common standards for clinical testing of new drugs throughout the European Union. by adopting standards for GCP and by making the clinical trial application and approval process more uniform across member states starting in May 2004. The FDA has had GCP in place as a regulatory standard and requirement for new drug approval for many years and Japan adopted GCP in 1998. The U.S., Europe and Japan have also collaborated in the 15-year-long ICH, the purpose of which is to eliminate duplicative or conflicting regulations in the three regions. The ICH partners have agreed upon a common format (the Common Technical Document) for marketing applications that eliminates the need to tailor the format to each region. Such efforts and similar efforts in the future that streamline the regulatory process may reduce the demand for the Company's services. Parts of PAREXEL's PCMS business advises clients on how to satisfy regulatory standards for manufacturing processes and on other matters related to the enforcement of government regulations by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Any reduction in levels of review of manufacturing processes or levels of regulatory enforcement, generally, would result in fewer business opportunities for the PCMS business in this area. As a result of lower level of FDA enforcement activities over the last two years, PCMS experienced a decline in the group's GMP consulting business, which adversely affected the business unit. IF THE COMPANY FAILS TO COMPLY WITH EXISTING REGULATIONS, ITS REPUTATION AND OPERATING RESULTS WOULD BE HARMED The Company's business is subject to numerous governmental regulations, primarily relating to pharmaceutical product development and the conduct of clinical trials. If the Company fails to comply with these governmental regulations, it could result in the termination of the Company's ongoing research, development or sales and marketing projects, or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. The Company also could be barred from providing clinical trial services in the future or could be subjected to fines. Any of these consequences would harm the Company's reputation, its prospects for future work and its operating results. In addition, the Company may have to repeat research or redo trials. The Company may be contractually required to take such action at no further cost to the customer, but at substantial cost to the Company. THE COMPANY MAY LOSE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AS A RESULT OF HEALTH CARE REFORM AND THE EXPANSION OF MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS Numerous governments, including the U.S. government and governments outside of the U.S., have undertaken efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. If these efforts are successful, pharmaceutical, medical device and biotechnology companies may react by spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, the Company would have fewer business opportunities and its revenues could decrease, possibly materially. For instance, in the past the U.S. Congress has entertained several comprehensive health care reform proposals. The proposals were generally intended to expand health care coverage for the uninsured and reduce the growth of total health care expenditures. While the U.S. Congress has not yet adopted any comprehensive reform proposals, members of Congress may raise similar proposals in the future. The Company is unable to predict the likelihood that health care reform proposals will be enacted into law. In addition to health care reform proposals, the expansion of managed care organizations in the healthcare market may result in reduced spending on research and development. Managed care organizations' efforts to cut costs by limiting expenditures on pharmaceuticals and medical devices could result in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies spending less on research and development. If this were to occur, the Company would have fewer business opportunities and its revenues could decrease, possibly materially. NEW AND PROPOSED LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING CONFIDENTIALITY OF PATIENT INFORMATION COULD RESULT IN INCREASED RISKS OF LIABILITY OR INCREASED COSTS TO THE COMPANY, OR COULD LIMIT THE COMPANY'S SERVICE OFFERINGS The confidentiality and release of patient-specific information are subject to government regulation. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has issued regulations mandating heightened privacy and confidentiality protections. The federal government and state governments have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other personal health information. Proposals being considered by state governments may contain privacy and security provisions that are more burdensome than the federal regulations. In order to comply with these regulations, the Company may need to implement new security measures, which may require the Company to make substantial expenditures or cause the Company to limit the products and services it offers. In addition, if the Company violates applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of health information, it could be subject to civil or criminal liability. 16 IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT KEEP PACE WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, ITS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MAY BECOME LESS COMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE, ESPECIALLY IN THE COMPANY'S PERCEPTIVE INFORMATICS BUSINESS The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally, and clinical research specifically, are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. The Company's competitors or others might develop technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than the Company's current or future technologies, products or services, or render its technologies, products or services less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, products or services and the Company cannot make enhancements to its technologies, products and services necessary to remain competitive, its competitive position will be harmed. If the Company is unable to compete successfully, it may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers, which could lead to a decrease in revenue. BECAUSE THE COMPANY DEPENDS ON A SMALL NUMBER OF INDUSTRIES AND CLIENTS FOR ALL OF ITS BUSINESS, THE LOSS OF BUSINESS FROM A SIGNIFICANT CLIENT COULD HARM ITS BUSINESS, REVENUE, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The loss of, or a material reduction in the business of, a significant client could cause a substantial decrease in the Company's revenue and adversely affect its business and financial condition, possibly materially. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, the Company's five largest clients accounted for 25% of its consolidated service revenue although no single client accounted for 10% or more of consolidated service revenue, and in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, the Company's five largest clients accounted for 30% of its consolidated service revenue, although no single client accounted for 10% or more of consolidated service revenue. The Company expects that a small number of clients will continue to represent a significant part of its revenue. The Company's contracts with these clients generally can be terminated on short notice. The Company has in the past experienced contract cancellations with significant clients. IF THE COMPANY'S PERCEPTIVE INFORMATICS BUSINESS IS UNABLE TO MAINTAIN CONTINUOUS, EFFECTIVE, RELIABLE AND SECURE OPERATION OF ITS COMPUTER HARDWARE, SOFTWARE AND INTERNET APPLICATIONS AND RELATED TOOLS AND FUNCTIONS, ITS BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED The Company's Perceptive Informatics business involves collecting, managing, manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating data via the Internet. Perceptive depends on the continuous, effective, reliable and secure operation of its computer hardware, software, networks, telecommunication networks, Internet servers and related infrastructure. If Perceptive's hardware or software malfunctions or access to Perceptive's data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, its business could suffer. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by third parties could adversely impact Perceptive's business. Although Perceptive's computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, and similar events. In addition, Perceptive's software products are complex and sophisticated, and could contain data, design or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. If Perceptive fails to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support its customers' needs, it could result in loss of or delay in revenue and market acceptance. IF THE COMPANY IS UNABLE TO ATTRACT SUITABLE WILLING VOLUNTEERS FOR THE CLINICAL TRIALS OF ITS CLIENTS, ITS CLINICAL RESEARCH SERVICES BUSINESS MAY SUFFER One of the factors on which the Company's CRS business competes is the ability to recruit patients for the clinical studies the Company is managing. These clinical trials rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of volunteer subjects. These subjects generally include volunteers from the communities in which the studies are conducted. Although to date these communities have provided a substantial pool of potential subjects for research studies, there may not be enough patients available with the traits necessary to conduct the studies. For example, if the Company manages a study for a treatment of a particular type of cancer, its ability to conduct the study may be limited by the number of patients that it can recruit that have that form of cancer. If multiple organizations are conducting similar studies and competing for patients, it could also make the Company's recruitment efforts more difficult. If the Company were unable to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis, it would have an adverse effect on the trials being managed by its CRS business, which could have a material adverse effect on its CRS business. 17 IF THE COMPANY'S HIGHLY QUALIFIED MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL LEFT, ITS BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED The Company relies on the expertise of its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Josef H. von Rickenbach. If Mr. von Rickenbach left, it would be difficult and expensive to find a qualified replacement with the level of specialized knowledge of the Company's products and services and the bio/pharmaceutical services industry. The Company is a party to an employment agreement with Mr. von Rickenbach, which may be terminated by the Company or Mr. von Rickenbach upon notice to the other party. In addition, in order to compete effectively, the Company must attract and maintain qualified sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. Competition for these skilled personnel, particularly those with a medical degree, a Ph.D. or equivalent degrees, is intense. The Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining key personnel. THE COMPANY MAY HAVE SUBSTANTIAL EXPOSURE TO PAYMENT OF PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS AND MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE INSURANCE TO COVER SUCH CLAIMS The Company's CRS business primarily involves the testing of experimental drugs and medical devices on consenting human volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. Clinical research involves a risk of liability for personal injury or death to patients who participate in the study or who use a product approved by regulatory authorities after the clinical research has concluded, due to, among other reasons, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of the drug or device by physicians. In some cases, these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death. In order to mitigate the risk of liability, the Company seeks to include indemnity provisions in its Clinical Research Services contracts with clients and with investigators. However, the Company is not able to include indemnity provisions in all of its contracts. The indemnity provisions the Company includes in these contracts would not cover its exposure if: - the Company had to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of an indemnity; or - a client failed to indemnify the Company in accordance with the terms of an indemnity agreement because it did not have the financial ability to fulfill its indemnification obligation or for any other reason. The Company also carries insurance to cover its risk of liability. However, the Company's insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover claims. In addition, liability coverage is expensive. In the future, the Company may not be able to maintain or obtain liability insurance on reasonable terms, at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect it against losses due to claims. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS THAT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT ITS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL POSITION The Company provides most of its services on a worldwide basis. The Company's service revenue from non-U.S. operations represented approximately 62.7% of total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and approximately 54.8% of total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended, June 30, 2004. In addition, the Company's service revenue from operations in the United Kingdom represented approximately 19.7% of total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and approximately 18.2% of total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. The Company's service revenue from operations in Germany represented approximately 18.6% of total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and approximately 15.8% of total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Accordingly, the Company's business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: - changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, including Western Europe, in particular; - potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting its ability to repatriate profits; - difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; - unfavorable labor regulations applicable to its European operations; - changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and - longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions. 18 THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS HAVE FLUCTUATED BETWEEN QUARTERS AND YEARS AND MAY CONTINUE TO FLUCTUATE IN THE FUTURE, WHICH COULD AFFECT THE PRICE OF ITS COMMON STOCK The Company's quarterly and annual operating results have varied and will continue to vary in the future as a result of a variety of factors. For example, the Company's income (loss) from operations was $5.3 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, $13.5 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, $17.3 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and $(5.1) million for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Factors that cause these variations include: - the level of new business authorizations in a particular quarter or year; - the timing of the initiation, progress, or cancellation of significant projects; - exchange rate fluctuations between quarters or years; - restructuring charges; - the mix of services offered in a particular quarter or year; - the timing of the opening of new offices; - costs and the related financial impact of acquisitions; - the timing of internal expansion; - the timing and amount of costs associated with integrating acquisitions; and - the timing and amount of startup costs incurred in connection with the introduction of new products, services or subsidiaries. Many of these factors, such as the timing of cancellations of significant projects and exchange rate fluctuations between quarters or years, are beyond the Company's control. Approximately 65-70% of the Company's operating costs are fixed in the short term. In particular, a significant portion of the Company's operating costs relate to personnel, which are estimated to have accounted for 75-80% of the Company's total operating costs in fiscal year 2005. As a result, the effect on the Company's revenues of the timing of the completion, delay or loss of contracts, or the progress of client projects, could cause its operating results to vary substantially between reporting periods. If the Company's operating results do not match the expectations of securities analysts and investors as a result of these factors, the trading price of its common stock will likely decrease. THE COMPANY'S REVENUE AND EARNINGS ARE EXPOSED TO EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS Approximately 62.7% of the Company's total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and approximately 54.8% of the Company's total consolidated service revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 were from non-U.S. operations. The Company's financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, changes in foreign currency exchange rate, could have and have had a significant effect on the Company's operating results. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar create risk in several ways, including: - Foreign Currency Translation Risk. The revenue and expenses of the Company's foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies, primarily the British pound and the Euro, and then are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 approximately 19.7% of total consolidated service revenue was denominated in British pounds and approximately 34.2% of total consolidated service revenue was denominated in Euros. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, approximately 18.2% of total consolidated service revenue was denominated in British pounds and approximately 29.6% of total consolidated service revenue was denominated in Euros. - Foreign Currency Transaction Risk. The Company's service contracts may be denominated in a currency other than the functional currency in which it performs the service related to such contracts. Although the Company tries to limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in its service contracts, or by hedging transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts, it may still experience fluctuations in financial results from its operations outside of the U.S., and may not be able to favorably reduce the currency transaction risk associated with its service contracts. 19 THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS HAS EXPERIENCED SUBSTANTIAL EXPANSION IN THE PAST AND SUCH EXPANSION AND ANY FUTURE EXPANSION COULD STRAIN ITS RESOURCES IF NOT PROPERLY MANAGED The Company has expanded its business substantially in the past. Future rapid expansion could strain the Company's operational, human and financial resources. In order to manage expansion, the Company must: - continue to improve operating, administrative and information systems; - accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet client contract commitments; - track the progress of ongoing client projects; and - attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. If the Company does not take these actions and is not able to manage the expanded business, the expanded business may be less successful than anticipated, and the Company may be required to allocate additional resources to the expanded business, which it would have otherwise allocated to another part of its business. The Company may face additional risks in expanding its foreign operations. Specifically, the Company may find it difficult to: - assimilate differences in foreign business practices, exchange rates and regulatory requirements; - operate amid political and economic instability; - hire and retain qualified personnel; and - overcome language, tariff and other barriers. THE COMPANY MAY MAKE ACQUISITIONS IN THE FUTURE, WHICH MAY LEAD TO DISRUPTIONS TO ITS ONGOING BUSINESS The Company has made a number of acquisitions and will continue to review new acquisition opportunities. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to the business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, the Company's ability to: - assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company; - integrate acquired personnel; - retain and motivate key employees; - retain customers; and - minimize the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Acquisitions of foreign companies may also involve additional risks, including assimilating differences in foreign business practices and overcoming language and cultural barriers. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet the Company's performance expectations, the Company may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business. THE COMPANY'S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE, INCLUDING PROVISIONS OF ITS ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION AND BY-LAWS AND ITS SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN, AND MASSACHUSETTS LAW MAY DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL OR MANAGEMENT THAT STOCKHOLDERS MAY CONSIDER DESIRABLE Provisions of the Company's articles of organization, by-laws and its shareholder rights plan, as well as provisions of Massachusetts law, may enable the Company's management to resist acquisition of the Company by a third party, or may discourage a third party from acquiring the Company. These provisions include the following: 20 - the Company has divided its board of directors into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms; - the Company is subject to Section 8.06 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Law which provides that directors may only be removed by stockholders for cause, vacancies in the Company's board of directors may only be filled by a vote of the Company's board of directors and the number of directors may be fixed only by the Company's board of directors; - the Company is subject to Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws which limits its ability to engage in business combinations with certain interested stockholders; - the Company's stockholders are limited in their ability to call or introduce proposals at stockholder meetings; and - the Company's shareholder rights plan would cause a proposed acquirer of 20% or more of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock to suffer significant dilution. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of the Company or a change in the Company's management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company's stock. In addition, the Company's Board of Directors may issue preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval. If the Company's Board of Directors issues preferred stock, the holders of common stock would be subordinate to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. The Company's Board of Directors' ability to issue the preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of the Company's stock. THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN AND MAY IN THE FUTURE BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD LEAD TO LOSSES BY INVESTORS The market price of the Company's common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may continue to do so in the future. On September 2, 2005, the closing sale price of the Company's common stock on the NASDAQ National Market was $19.83 per share. During the period from July 1, 2003 to June 30, 2005, the price of the Company's common stock ranged from a high of $25.04 per share to a low of $13.35 per share. Investors in the Company's common stock must be willing to bear the risk of such fluctuations in stock price and the risk that the value of an investment in the Company's stock could decline. The Company's stock price can be affected by quarter-to-quarter variations in a number of factors including: - operating results; - earnings estimates by analysts; - market conditions in the industry; - prospects of health care reform; - changes in government regulations; and - general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock. Since the Company's common stock has traded in the past at a relatively high price-earnings multiple, due in part to analysts' expectations of earnings growth, the price of the stock could quickly and substantially decline as a result of even a relatively small shortfall in earnings from, or a change in, analysts' expectations. 