Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to various risks, including the risks described below. The Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. The Company may have a higher risk of delinquency and default than traditional lenders because it loans money to credit-impaired borrowers. Substantially all of the Company’s automobile contracts involve loans made to individuals with impaired or limited credit histories, or higher debt-to-income ratios than permitted by traditional lenders. Loans made to borrowers who are restricted in their ability to obtain financing from traditional lenders generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession, and higher losses than loans made to borrowers with better credit. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income and repayment of principal from a loan, and a default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the automobile securing the loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan or the 12 vehicle cannot be recovered. The Company’s profitability depends, in part, upon its ability to properly evaluate the creditworthiness of non-prime borrowers and efficiently service such loans. Although the Company believes that its underwriting criteria and collection methods enable it to manage the higher risks inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers, no assurance can be given that such criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against such risks. If the Company experiences higher losses than anticipated, its financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. From time to time, the Company has to recognize losses resulting from the inability of certain borrowers to repay loans and the insufficient realizable value of the collateral securing loans. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The allowance for credit losses is based primarily upon historical credit loss experience, with consideration given to delinquency levels, collateral values, economic conditions and underwriting and collections practices. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates of material factors that may be susceptible to significant change. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in the availability or access to sources of inventory would adversely affect the Company’s business by increasing the costs of vehicles purchased. The Company acquires vehicles primarily through wholesalers, new car dealers, individuals and auctions. There can be no assurance that sufficient inventory will continue to be available to the Company or will be available at comparable costs. Any reduction in the availability of inventory or increases in the cost of vehicles would adversely affect gross profit percentages as the Company focuses on keeping payments affordable to its customer base. The Company could have to absorb cost increases. The overall new car sales volumes in the United States have decreased dramatically in the last few years and this could potentially have a significant negative effect on the supply of vehicles available to the Company in future periods. The used automotive retail industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which could result in increased costs to the Company for vehicles and adverse price competition. The Company competes principally with other independent Buy Here/Pay Here dealers, and to a lesser degree with (i) the used vehicle retail operations of franchised automobile dealerships, (ii) independent used vehicle dealers, and (iii) individuals who sell used vehicles in private transactions. The Company competes for both the purchase and resale of used vehicles. The Company’s competitors may sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that Car-Mart offers in the same or similar markets at competitive prices. Increased competition in the market, including new entrants to the market, could result in increased wholesale costs for used vehicles and lower-than-expected vehicle sales and margins. Further, if any of the Company’s competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing price s for used vehicles, the Company would likely reduce its prices in order to remain competitive, which may result in a decrease in its sales and profitability and require a change in its operating strategies. 13 The used automotive retail industry operates in a highly regulated environment with significant attendant compliance costs and penalties for non-compliance. The used automotive retail industry is subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements and laws regarding advertising, vehicle sales, financing, and employment practices. Facilities and operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The violation of these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties against the Company, or in a cease and desist order. As a result, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures, and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. Further, over the past several years, private plaintiffs and federal, state, and local regulatory and law e nforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale of motor vehicles. Additionally, the Company anticipates that it could be subject to additional regulations in connection with federal legislation that is being considered by the United States Congress to establish a consumer financial protection agency with potentially broad regulatory powers over consumer credit products such as those offered by the Company Inclement weather can adversely impact the Company’s operating results. The occurrence of weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, which adversely affect consumer traffic at the Company’s automotive dealerships, could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. The severe downturn in recent global economic and market conditions could have adverse consequences for the used automotive retail industry in the future and may have greater consequences for the non-prime segment of the industry. In the normal course of business, the used automotive retail industry is subject to changes in regional U.S. economic conditions, including, but not limited to, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. The recent severe downturn and disruptions in global economic and market conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase the Company’s costs, resulting in lower profitability for the Company. Due to the Company’s focus on non-prime borrowers, its actual rate of delinquencies, repossessions and credit losses on loans could be higher under adverse economic conditions than those experienced in the automotive retail finance industr y in general. The Company is unable to predict with certainty the future impact which the most recent global economic conditions will have on consumer demand in our markets or on the Company’s costs. If an amendment to the Arkansas constitution is not approved by voters, a decrease in market interest rates will likely have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The Company’s earnings are impacted by its net interest income, which is the difference between the income earned on interest-bearing assets and the interest paid on interest-bearing notes payable. The Company’s finance receivables generally bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.5% to 19%, while its revolving notes payable contain variable interest rates that fluctuate with market interest rates. However, interest rates charged on finance receivables originated in the State of Arkansas have, until recently, been limited to the federal primary credit rate (currently .75%) plus 5%. In recent years, the rate charged to Arkansas customers was as high as 11.25%, in August 2007. Typically, the Company has charged interest on its Arkansas loans at or near the maximum rate allowed by law. Thus, while the interest rates charged on the Company’s loans do not fluctuate once established, new loans originated in Arkansas were set at a spread above the federal primary credit rate which does fluctuate. At April 30, 2010, approximately 48% of the Company’s finance receivables were originated in Arkansas. The long-term 14 effect of decreases in the federal primary credit rate generally had a negative effect on the profitability of the Company because the amount of interest income lost on Arkansas originated loans would likely exceed the amount of interest expense saved on the Company’s variable rate borrowings. Effective June 26, 2009, the Company began charging 12% on loans originated in Arkansas. This was due to the passage by the U.S. Congress of the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009 which was signed into law on June 24, 2009. Within this legislation is a provision which allows the Company to charge up to 17% on loans to our customers in Arkansas. The legislation has a sunset clause and will expire on December 31, 2010. The sunset exists because Arkansas voters will be voting in November 2010 on a state constitutional amendment which will effectively replace the federal legislation. Should Arkansas voters not approve the state constitutional amendment; the Company will again be subject to a maximum rate of the federal primary credit rate plus 5% effective January 1, 2011 for loans originated in Arkansas. The Company’s business is geographically concentrated; therefore, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in its local markets. The Company’s performance is subject to local economic, competitive, and other conditions prevailing in the eight states where the Company operates. The Company provides financing in connection with the sale of substantially all of its vehicles. These sales are made primarily to customers residing in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Kentucky and Missouri, with approximately 47% of revenues resulting from sales to Arkansas customers. The Company’s current results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these local markets. Any decline in the general economic conditions or decreased consumer spending in these markets may have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s success depends upon the continued contributions of its management teams and the ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The Company is dependent upon the continued contributions of its management teams. Because the Company maintains a decentralized operation in which each dealership is responsible for buying and selling its own vehicles, making credit decisions and collecting loans it originates, the key employees at each dealership are important factors in the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. Consequently, the loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, when the Company decides to open new dealerships, the Company will need to hire additional personnel. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which the Company operates is highly competitive and may subject the Company to increased l abor costs during periods of low unemployment. The Company’s business is dependent upon the efficient operation of its information systems. The Company relies on its information systems to manage its sales, inventory, consumer financing, and customer information effectively. The failure of the Company’s information systems to perform as designed, or the failure to maintain and continually enhance or protect the integrity of these systems, could disrupt the Company’s business, impact sales and profitability, or expose the Company to customer or third-party claims. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing could adversely affect the Company’s growth and business strategies and the recent volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to access the credit markets in the future and/or obtain credit on favorable terms. The Company generates cash from income from continuing operations. The cash is primarily used to fund finance receivables growth. To the extent finance receivables growth exceeds income from 15 continuing operations, generally the Company increases its borrowings under its revolving credit facilities to provide the cash necessary to make loans. On a long-term basis, the Company expects its principal sources of liquidity to consist of income from continuing operations and borrowings under revolving credit facilities and/or fixed interest term loans. Any adverse changes in the Company’s ability to borrow under revolving credit facilities or fixed interest term loans, or any increase in the cost of such borrowings, would likely have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to finance receivables growth which would adversely affect the Company’s growth and business strategies. Further, the Company’s current credit facilities contain various reporting and financial performance covenants. Any failure of the Company to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. Recently, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly tight as a result of adverse economic conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. While currently these conditions have not impaired the Company’s ability to access the credit markets and finance its operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience crises and the availability of funds remains low, it is possible that the Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or available on less favorable terms at a time when the Company would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on the Company’s ability to refinance maturing debt or react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, if current global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, the Company’s business may suffer in a manner which could cause the Company to fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants under its credit facilities. The Company’s growth is dependent upon the availability of suitable dealership sites. The Company leases a majority of the properties where its dealerships are located. If and when the Company decides to open new dealerships, the inability to acquire suitable real estate, either through lease or purchase, at favorable terms could limit the expansion of the Company’s dealership base and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s expansion strategy and future operating results. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s third fiscal quarter (November through January) was historically the slowest period for vehicle sales. Conversely, the Company’s first and fourth fiscal quarters (May through July and February through April) were historically the busiest times for vehicle sales. Therefore, the Company generally realized a higher proportion of its revenue and operating profit during the first and fourth fiscal quarters. However, in fiscal 2008, 2009 and 2010 tax refund anticipation sales began in early November and continued through January (the Company’s third fiscal quarter). The success of the tax refund anticipation sales effort has led to higher sales levels during the third fiscal quarters and the Company expects this trend to continue in future periods. If conditions arise that impair vehicle sale s during the first, third or fourth fiscal quarters, the adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and operating results for the year could be disproportionately large. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 