Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to various risks. The following is a discussion of risks that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition. The Company may have a higher risk of delinquency and default than traditional lenders because it finances its sales of used vehicles to credit-impaired borrowers. Substantially all of the Company’s automobile contracts involve financing to individuals with impaired or limited credit histories, or higher debt-to-income ratios than permitted by traditional lenders. Financing made to borrowers who are restricted in their ability to obtain financing from traditional lenders generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession, and higher losses than financing made to borrowers with better credit. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income and repayment of principal from a contract, and a default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the automobile securing the contract is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the contract or the vehicle cannot be recovered. The Company’s profitability depends, in part, upon its ability to properly evaluate the creditworthiness of non-prime borrowers and efficiently service such contracts. Although the Company believes that its underwriting criteria and collection methods enable it to manage the higher risks inherent in financing made to non-prime borrowers, no assurance can be given that such criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against such risks. If the Company experiences higher losses than anticipated, its financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. From time to time, the Company has to recognize losses resulting from the inability of certain borrowers to pay contracts and the insufficient realizable value of the collateral securing contracts. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its contract portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The allowance for credit losses is based primarily upon historical credit loss experience, with consideration given to delinquency levels, collateral values, economic conditions and underwriting and collections practices. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates of material factors that may be susceptible to significant change. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its contract portfolio which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in the availability or access to sources of inventory would adversely affect the Company’s business by increasing the costs of vehicles purchased. 12 The Company acquires vehicles primarily through wholesalers, new car dealers, individuals and auctions. There can be no assurance that sufficient inventory will continue to be available to the Company or will be available at comparable costs. Any reduction in the availability of inventory or increases in the cost of vehicles would adversely affect gross margin percentages as the Company focuses on keeping payments affordable to its customer base. The Company could have to absorb cost increases. The overall new car sales volumes in the United States have decreased dramatically from peak sales years and this has had and could continue to have a significant negative effect on the supply of vehicles available to the Company in future periods. The March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan also had a negative effect on new vehicle sales which could affect used vehicle availability in future years. The used automotive retail industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which could result in increased costs to the Company for vehicles and adverse price competition. The Company competes principally with other independent Integrated Auto Sales and Finance dealers, and to a lesser degree with (i) the used vehicle retail operations of franchised automobile dealerships, (ii) independent used vehicle dealers, and (iii) individuals who sell used vehicles in private transactions. The Company competes for both the purchase and resale of used vehicles. The Company’s competitors may sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that Car-Mart offers in the same or similar markets at competitive prices. Increased competition in the market, including new entrants to the market, could result in increased wholesale costs for used vehicles and lower-than-expected vehicle sales and margins. Further, if any of the Company’s competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices for used vehicles, the Company would likely reduce its prices in order to remain competitive, which may result in a decrease in its sales and profitability and require a change in its operating strategies. The used automotive retail industry operates in a highly regulated environment with significant attendant compliance costs and penalties for non-compliance. The used automotive retail industry is subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements and laws regarding advertising, vehicle sales, financing, and employment practices. Facilities and operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The violation of these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties against the Company or in a cease and desist order. As a result, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures, and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. Further, over the past several years, private plaintiffs and federal, state, and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale of motor vehicles. Additionally, the Company anticipates that it could be subject to additional regulations under the newly established federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which has broad regulatory powers over consumer credit products and services such as those offered by the Company. The provisions of this legislation are still in the implementation phase, and the Bureau has only recently begun exercising its rulemaking and enforcement authority. The Bureau’s powers include supervisory authority over certain providers of consumer financial products and services; the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful; the authority to impose recordkeeping obligations; and the authority to enforce various federal laws related to consumer finance. Inclement weather can adversely impact the Company’s operating results. The occurrence of weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, which adversely affect consumer traffic at the Company’s automotive dealerships, could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. 13 Recent and future disruptions in domestic and global economic and market conditions could have adverse consequences for the used automotive retail industry in the future and may have greater consequences for the non-prime segment of the industry. In the normal course of business, the used automotive retail industry is subject to changes in regional U.S. economic conditions, including, but not limited to, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. Recent and future disruptions in domestic and global economic and market conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase the Company’s costs, resulting in lower profitability for the Company. Due to the Company’s focus on non-prime customers, its actual rate of delinquencies, repossessions and credit losses on contracts could be higher under adverse economic conditions than those experienced in the automotive retail finance industry in general. The Company is unable to predict with certainty the future impact of the most recent global economic conditions on consumer demand in our markets or on the Company’s costs. The Company’s business is geographically concentrated; therefore, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in its local markets. The Company’s performance is subject to local economic, competitive, and other conditions prevailing in the nine states where the Company operates. The Company provides financing in connection with the sale of substantially all of its vehicles. These sales are made primarily to customers residing in Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas with approximately 43% of revenues resulting from sales to Arkansas customers. The Company’s current results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these local markets. Any decline in the general economic conditions or decreased consumer spending in these markets may have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s success depends upon the continued contributions of its management teams and the ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The Company is dependent upon the continued contributions of its management teams. Because the Company maintains a decentralized operation in which each dealership is responsible for buying and selling its own vehicles, making credit decisions and collecting contracts it originates, the key employees at each dealership are important factors in the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. Consequently, the loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, when the Company decides to open new dealerships, the Company will need to hire additional personnel. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which the Company operates is highly competitive and may subject the Company to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The Company’s business is dependent upon the efficient operation of its information systems. The Company relies on its information systems to manage its sales, inventory, consumer financing, and customer information effectively. The failure of the Company’s information systems to perform as designed, or the failure to maintain and continually enhance or protect the integrity of these systems, could disrupt the Company’s business, impact sales and profitability, or expose the Company to customer or third-party claims. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing could adversely affect the Company’s growth and business strategies and the recent volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to access the credit markets in the future and/or obtain credit on favorable terms. The Company generates cash from income from continuing operations. The cash is primarily used to fund finance receivables growth. To the extent finance receivables growth exceeds income from continuing operations, generally the Company increases its borrowings under its revolving credit facilities to provide the cash necessary to fund installment sales contracts. On a long-term basis, the Company expects its principal sources of liquidity to consist of income from continuing operations and borrowings under revolving credit facilities and/or fixed interest term loans. Any adverse changes in the Company’s ability to borrow under revolving credit facilities or fixed interest term loans, or any increase in the cost of such borrowings, would likely have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to finance receivables growth which would adversely affect the Company’s growth and business strategies. Further, the Company’s current credit facilities contain various reporting and financial performance covenants. Any failure of the Company to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to implement its business strategy. 14 The capital and credit markets have remained somewhat constricted as a result of adverse economic conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies in the past few years. While currently these conditions have not impaired the Company’s ability to access the credit markets and finance its operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets. If the capital and credit markets experience further disruptions and the availability of funds remains low, it is possible that the Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or available on less favorable terms at a time when the Company would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on the Company’s ability to refinance maturing debt or react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, if current global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, the Company’s business may suffer in a manner which could cause the Company to fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants under its credit facilities. The Company’s growth strategy is dependent upon the following factors: · Availability of suitable dealership sites. Our ability to open new dealerships is subject to the availability of suitable dealership sites in locations and on terms favorable to the Company. If and when the Company decides to open new dealerships, the inability to acquire suitable real estate, either through lease or purchase, at favorable terms could limit the expansion of the Company’s dealership base. In addition, if a new dealership is unsuccessful and we are forced to close the dealership, we could incur additional costs if we are unable to dispose of the property in a timely manner or on terms favorable to the Company. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s expansion strategy and future operating results. · Ability to attract and retain management for new dealerships. The success of new dealerships is dependent upon the Company being able to hire and retain additional competent personnel. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which the Company operates is highly competitive. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified and competent personnel to operate our new dealerships, these dealerships may not be profitable, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and operating results. · Availability and cost of vehicles. The cost and availability of sources of inventory could affect the Company’s ability to open new dealerships. The overall new car sales volumes in the United States have decreased dramatically from peak sales years and this could potentially have a significant negative effect on the supply of vehicles at appropriate prices available to the Company in future periods. This could make it difficult to supply appropriate levels of inventory for an increasing number of dealerships without significant additional costs, which could limit our future sales or reduce future profit margins if we are required to incur substantially higher costs to maintain appropriate inventory levels. · Acceptable levels of credit losses at new dealerships. Credit losses tend to be higher at new dealerships due to fewer repeat customers and less experienced associates. Therefore, the opening of new dealerships tends to increase our overall credit losses. In addition, our new dealerships may experience higher than anticipated credit losses, which may require us to incur additional costs to reduce future credit losses or to close the underperforming locations altogether. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and operating results. 15 The Company’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s third fiscal quarter (November through January) was historically the slowest period for vehicle sales. Conversely, the Company’s first and fourth fiscal quarters (May through July and February through April) were historically the busiest times for vehicle sales. Therefore, the Company generally realized a higher proportion of its revenue and operating profit during the first and fourth fiscal quarters. However, during recent fiscal years, tax refund anticipation sales have begun in early November and continued through January (the Company’s third fiscal quarter). The success of the tax refund anticipation sales effort has led to higher sales levels during the third fiscal quarters and the Company expects this trend to continue in future periods. However, a shift in the timing of actual tax refund dollars in the Company’s markets shifted sales and collections from the third to the fourth quarter in fiscal 2011 and 2012 and is expected to have a similar effect in future years. If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first, third or fourth fiscal quarters, the adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and operating results for the year could be disproportionately large. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 