Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you trade our common stock or other securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted below are not the only risks of our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affe cted. In that case, the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Certain risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include the following: Risks and Uncertainties — SED has at various times experienced a decline in net sales in the United States and has incurred operating losses in either its domestic or certain of its foreign operations at various times during the past five fiscal years. While SED’s management is focused on increasing sales and profit margins and reducing administrative and overhead costs, there is no assurance SED will be successful in these efforts. Failure to improve operating metrics could materially adversely affect SED’s profitability and financial condition. Numerous factors and conditions impact SED’s ability to achieve its profit goals, including, but not limited to, the following: § Global Economic Downturn— A global economic downturn creates several risks relating to our financial results, operations and prospects. We may experience a rapid decline in demand for the products we sell resulting in a more competitive environment and pressure to reduce the cost of operations. A global economic downturn may also result in changes in vendor terms and conditions, such as rebates, cash discounts and cooperative marketing efforts, which may result in further downward pressure on our gross margins. Deterioration in the financial and credit markets hei ghtens the risk of customer bankruptcies and delays in payment. Deterioration in the credit markets in Latin America may result in reduced availability of credit insurance to cover customer accounts. This may result in our reducing the credit lines we provide to customers, thereby having a negative impact on our net sales. In addition, in this environment, there is a greater possibility of increased interest rates on our borrowings and greater uncertainty in the capital markets related to our cost of or access to capital to finance our business, including the ability of financial institutions to fund their commitments to us. Also, volatile foreign currency exchange rates increase our risk related to products purchased in a currency other than the currency in which those products are sold. The realization of any or all of these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. § Impact of Policy Changes — SED may implement or modify policies designed to offset certain costs, such as our policies concerning freight and handling fees to customers. These policies are designed to help offset specific costs that have significantly increased or that can no longer be included in the overall price of the products we sell. Given the competitive nature of the markets in which SED operates, these policies may result in customers seeking alternative sources for their IT, consumer electronics and cellular products, and therefore, could have an adverse effect on our business. 6 § Continuation of distribution agreements — SED operates under formal but cancelable distribution agreements with certain of its suppliers. If these agreements were cancelled, SED would be forced to attempt to obtain its products through wholesalers. This would reduce SED’s profit margin on the affected products. § Availability of certain products — From time to time, due to production limitations or heavy demand, SED may only be able to purchase a limi ted amount of popular products from its suppliers. § Product margins — SED operates in a very competitive business environment. Accordingly, product margins are continually under pricing pressure. From time to time, SED receives price protection and other considerations from its vendors. While we have no reason to believe such vendor considerations will not continue, no assurance can be given that such price protection and other considerations will continue to be received in the future. § Vendor Credit — SED significantly relies on its suppliers for trade credit. Changes by our suppliers in their credit terms could force us to obtain less favorable financing for our purchases. § Vendor Terms and Conditions — SED relies on various rebates, cash discounts, and cooperative marketing programs offered by its vendors to cover in whole or in part certain expenses associated with distributing and marketing the vendors’ products. Currently, the rebates and purchase discounts offered by vendors are influenced by sales volumes and are subject to change. Additionally, certain of SED’s vendors subsidize floorplan financing arrangements for the benefit of our customers. Terminations of a supply or services agreement or a significant change in vendor terms or conditions of sale could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue or the level of capital required to fund our operations. SED receives a significant percentage of revenues from products it purchases from relatively few manufacturers. A manufacturer may make rapid, significant and adverse changes in its sales terms and conditions, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights as well as reducing the level of purchase discounts and rebates they make available to us, or may merge with or acquire other significant manufacturers. SED’s gross margins could be negatively impacted if we are unable to pass through the impact of these changes to our customers or cannot develop systems to manage ongoing vendor programs. In addition, SED’s standard vendor distribution agreement permits terminatio n without cause by either party upon 30 days notice. The loss of a relationship with any of our key vendors, a change in their strategy (such as increasing direct sales), the merging of significant manufacturers or significant changes in terms on their products may adversely affect our business. § Product obsolescence — SED offers a broad line of products that are subject to fast technological obsolescence, which increases the risk of inventory markdown. Through its vendor agreements SED has certain stock return privileges, which vary from supplier to supplier. We believe that stock return programs will continue in the future, but can give no assurance about the extent to which these programs will continue. § Credit decisions and losses — SED maintains an experienced customer credit staff and relies on customer payment history and third party data to make customer credit decisions. Nevertheless, SED may experience customer credit losses in excess of our expectations. SED maintains credit insurance policies for certain customers located in the United States and select Latin American countries (subject to various terms and conditions). However, the terms of the credit insurance agreement require SED to maintain certain minimum standards and policies with respect to extending credit to customers. If SED does not adhere to such policies, the insurance companies may not pay claims submitted by SED. § Proportionate control of general and administrative costs — SED attempts to control its overhead costs to keep such costs in line with its sales volume. As sales volumes fluctuate, we must continually monitor our overhead costs and make timely and appropriate adjustments. Failure to control overhead costs could have an adverse impact on SED’s cash flows, financial position and operating results. § Uncertain and possibly volatile economic and political environment in Latin America — The general economic and political environment in Colom bia and Argentina, the countries in which SED operates in Latin America, is uncertain and, at times, volatile. As a result of these conditions, SED could experience unexpected adverse issues in its operations in these countries. 7 § Need for Liquidity and Capital Resources; Fluctuations in Interest Rates— The Company’s business requires substantial capital to operate and to finance accounts receivable and inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. The Company has his torically relied upon cash generated from operations, bank credit lines and trade credit from its vendors to satisfy its capital needs and finance growth. The Company utilizes a US revolving credit facility and line of credit from a bank in Colombia to finance its business operations. As the financial markets change and new regulations come into effect, the cost of acquiring financing and the methods of financing may change. Changes in our credit rating or other market factors may increase our interest expense or other costs of capital or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms to fund our working capital needs. The inability to obtain such capital could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s credit facilities contain various financial and other covenants that limit the Company’s ability to borrow or limit the Company’s flexibility in responding to business conditions. These financing instruments involve variable rate debt, thus exposi ng the Company to risk of fluctuations in interest rates. Such fluctuations in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. However, the Company attempts to limit its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates through an interest rate swap agreement. § Availability of credit facilities — SED has operated and continues to operate, under a revolving credit facility with a US bank for many years that is subject to certain collateral limitations and contains certain covenants. No assurance can be given that SED will be able to maintain compliance with these financial covenants, or obtain waivers in the event of non-compliance, in the future. Failure to maintain compliance with these financial covenants could adversely affect SED’s ability to obtain vendor credit and the overall business operations. Our principal credit facility, which expires on September 21, 2011, is further described in Note 4 to SED’s Consolidated Financial Statements. § Cash flows — While not presently expected, SED’s continued operations in Latin America may require additional capital infusion (in the form of advance notes from SED or other borrowings by our subsidiaries). Our US bank credit facility restricts the future funding by us of our Latin American subsidiaries. Operating needs and regulatory matters may restrict our ability to repatriate cash flows from these subsidiaries to the United States. § Competition — SED operates in a highly competitive environment. The computer wholesale distribution industry is characterized by intense competition, based primarily on product availability, credit availability, price, speed of delivery, quality and depth of product lines and training, service and support. Weakness in demand in the market intensifies the competitive environment in which we operate. SED competes with a variety of regional, national and international wholesale electronic distributors, some of which have much greater financial resources than SED. We also face competition from companies entering or expanding into the logistics and product fulfillment and e-commerce supply chain services market. § Loss of Significant Customers — Customers do not have an obligation to make purchases from SED. In some cases, SED has made adjustments to its systems, vendor offerings, and processes, and made staffing decisions, in order to accommodate the needs of a significant customer. In the event a significant customer decides to make its purchases from another distributor, experiences a significant change in demand from its own customer base, becomes financially unstable, or is acquired by another company, SED's receipt of revenues may be significantly reduced, resulting in an adverse effect on SED's business. § Dependence on Information Systems — SED is highly dependent upon its internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate its business. There can be no assurance that SED’s information systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that we will be able to expand and improve its information systems, that SED will be able to convert to new systems efficiently, or that we will be able to integrate new programs effectively with its existing programs. A failure to overcome any of these problems could have an adverse effect on SED's business. § Dependence on Independent Sh ipping Companies — SED relies on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as Federal Express and United Parcel Service, for the delivery of its products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse effect on SED's business. SED may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pass along the full effect of an increase in these surcharges to its customers. 8 § Foreign Currency Exchange Risks; Exposure to Foreign Markets — SED conducts business in countries outside of the United States, which exposes SED to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. SED may enter into short-term forward exchange or option contracts to attempt to reduce this risk; nevertheless, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on SED's business. In particular, the value of our equity investment in foreign countries may fluctuate based upon changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These fluctuations, which are recorded in a cumulative translation adjustment account, may result in losses in the event a foreign subsidiary is sold or closed at a time when the foreign currency is weaker than when SED initially invested in the country. < br> SED's international operations are subject to other risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of certain technology, political instability, trade restrictions, tariff changes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of laws (in particular related to items such as duty and taxation), difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer collection periods and the impact of local economic conditions and practices. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have an adverse effect on SED's business. § Changes in Income Tax and Other Regulatory Legislation — SED believes it operates in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. When new legislation is enacted with minimal advance notice, or when new interpretations or applications of existing laws are made, we may need to implement changes in its policies or structure. SED makes plans for its structure and operations based upon existing laws and anticipated future changes in the law. SED is susceptible to unanticipated changes in legislation, especially relating to income and other taxes, import/export laws, hazardous materials and electronic waste recovery legislation, and other laws related to trade, accounting, and business activities. Such changes in legislation, both domestic and international, may have a significant adverse effect on SED's business. § Changes in Accounting Rules — SED prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), and the Securities and Exchange Commission. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before a change is announced. In addition, FASB has stated that it is trying to harmonize GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) existing in Europe and elsewhere and as this effort moves forward further changes in applicable accounting principles can be expected and no assurances can be give n as to their possible impact on our consolidated financial statements. § Exposure to Natural Disasters, War, and Terrorism — SED’s headquarters facilities and some of its logistics centers as well as certain vendors and customers are located in areas prone to natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, or earthquakes. In addition, demand for SED's services is concentrated in major metropolitan areas. Adverse weather conditions, major electrical failures or other natural or man-made disasters in these major metropolitan areas may disrupt our business should its ability to distribute products be impacted by such an event. SED operates in multiple geographic markets, several of which may be susceptible to acts of war and terrorism. Our business could be adversely affected should its ability to distribute products be impacted by such events. SED and many of its suppliers receive parts and products from Asia and operate in many parts of the world that may be susceptible to disease, epidemic, political instability and natural and man-made disasters that may disrupt SED’s ability to receive or deliver products or other disruptions in operations. § Volatility of Common Stock Price — Because of the foregoing factors, as well as othe r variables affecting SED's operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. In addition, SED's participation in a highly dynamic industry often results in significant volatility in our common stock price. Some of the factors that may affect the market price of our common stock, in addition to those discussed above, are changes in investment recommendations by securities analysts, changes in market valuations of competitors and key vendors, changes in our industry, competitive pricing pressures, our ability to obtain working capital or project financing, additions or departures of key personnel, limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock, sales of our common stock, our ability to execute our bu siness plan, operating results that fall below expectations, loss of any strategic relationship, economic, political and other external factors, period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results and fluctuations in the overall stock market, but particularly in the technology sector. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 9 § Our Common Stock Has Been Thinly Traded, Liquidity Is Limited — Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”), which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Amex Equities or the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.). Often there is a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on many days there has been no trading activity at all. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements for the OTCBB, trading of our stock could be removed from the OTCBB and that might have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. § Experience and Continued Services of Our Senior Management — the loss of senior management or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and motivate our executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and other benefits, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 