Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our securities. These are not all the risks we face, and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Our recent transaction with funds advised by BC Partners, Inc. dilutes the interests of our common shareholders, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and grants important rights to BC Partners, Inc. — The Series A and Series B Preferred Stock that we sold to funds advised by BC Partners, Inc. (the “Investors”) is immediately convertible into shares of the company’s common stock at an initial conversion price of $5.00 per share (subject to a conversion cap). The investment equates to an initial ownership interest of approximately 20%, assuming the full conversion of each series of preferred stock into the company’s common stock. Any sales in the public market of the shares of common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The initial dividend rate is 10% on both the Series A and Series B Preferred, and dividends are paid quarterly in cash or are added to the liquidation preference at the company’s option and subject to certain restrictions. To the extent that dividends are added to the liquidation preference, this will further increase the ownership interest of the Investors and further dilute the interests of the common shareholders. 9 Table of Contents The holders of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to vote with the holders of the company’s common stock on an as-converted basis, subject to any limitations imposed by any New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) stockholder approval requirements. The Investors have agreed to cause all of their common stock and preferred stock entitled to vote at any meeting of the company’s shareholders to be present at such meeting and to vote all such shares in favor of any nominee or director nominated by the company’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, against the removal of any director nominated by the company’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and, with respect to any other business or proposal, in accordance with the recommendation of the board of directors (other than with respect to the approval of any proposed business combination agreement between the company and another entity). This may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company. Furthermore, the company has entered into an Investor Rights Agreement pursuant to which the company granted certain rights to the Investors that may restrain the company’s ability to take certain actions in the future. Subject to certain exceptions, for so long as the Investors’ ownership percentage is equal to or greater than 10%, the approval of at least one of the directors designated to the company’s board of directors by the Investors is required for the company to incur any indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $200 million in the aggregate during any fiscal year if the ratio of the consolidated debt of the company and its subsidiaries to the trailing four quarter adjusted EBITDA of the company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, is more than 4x. In addition, for so long as the Investors’ ownership percentage is (i) equal to or greater than 15%, the Investors are entitled to nominate three of our fourteen directors, (ii) less than 15% but more than 10%, the Investors are entitled to nominate two of our fourteen directors and (iii) less than 10% but more than 5%, the Investors are entitled to nominate one of our fourteen directors. There can be no assurance that the interests of the Investors are aligned with that of our other shareholders. Investor interests can differ from each other and from other corporate interests and it is possible that this significant shareholder may have interests that differ from us and those of other shareholders. If the Investors were to sell, or otherwise transfer, all or a large percentage of their holdings, our stock price could decline and we could find it difficult to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. Economic Conditions May Cause a Decline in Business and Consumer Spending Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Performance — Our operating results and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on business and consumer spending. The decline in business and consumer spending resulting from the global recession and the deterioration of global credit markets has caused our comparable store sales to decline from prior periods and we have experienced similar declines in our other domestic and international businesses. Our business and financial performance may continue to be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions and the level of consumer debt and interest rates, which may cause a continued or further decline in business and consumer spending. Supplier Credit and Order Fulfillment Risk — We purchase products for resale under credit arrangements with our vendors. In recent years, we have worked to set payment terms to our vendors under these credit arrangements to occur at a time approximately equal to the anticipated time it takes to sell the vendor’s products. In weak global markets, vendors may seek credit insurance to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. If we continue to experience declining operating performance, and if we experience severe liquidity challenges, vendors may demand that we accelerate our payment for their products. If vendors begin to demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or if they begin to require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us, these demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and result in a severe drain on our liquidity. Borrowings under our existing credit facility could reach maximum levels under such circumstances and we would seek alternative liquidity measures but may not be able to meet our obligations as they become due. In addition if our suppliers are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they could be unable to supply us with product. Also, some of our suppliers may serve other industries. Any adverse impacts to those industries, as a result of the economic slowdown or credit crisis, could have a ripple effect on these suppliers which could adversely impact their ability to supply us as necessary. Any such 10 Table of Contents disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flow. Liquidity — Historically, we have generated positive cash flow from operating activities and have had access to broad financial markets that provide the liquidity we need to operate our business. Together, these sources have been used to fund operating and working capital needs, as well as invest in business expansion through new store openings, capital improvements and acquisitions. However, due to the downturn in the global economy our operating results have diminished. In September 2008, we entered into a $1.25 billion asset based credit facility to provide liquidity. Also, as discussed above, we issued $350 million in redeemable preferred stock in June 2009. Continued distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in the capital markets and diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. In addition, deterioration in our financial results could negatively impact our credit ratings. The tightening of the credit markets or a downgrade in our credit ratings could make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our existing indebtedness, to enter into agreements for new indebtedness or to obtain funding through the issuance of securities. If such conditions were to recur, we would seek alternative sources of liquidity but may not be able to meet our obligations as they become due. Financial Covenants in Existing Credit Facility — Our asset based credit facility contains a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that is operative only when borrowing availability is below $187.5 million or prior to a restricted transaction, such as incurring additional indebtedness, acquisitions, dispositions, dividends, or share repurchases. The agreement also contains representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and default provisions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our asset based credit agreement and our other indebtedness. Also, should there be an event of default, or need to obtain waivers following an event of default, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and/or more restrictive covenants in future periods. Acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt agreements or instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Litigation / Regulatory Risks — The company and certain of its directors and executive officers (both current and former officers) are often involved in various legal proceedings, which may involve class action lawsuits, state and federal governmental inquiries and investigations, employment, tort, consumer litigation and intellectual property litigation. Certain of these legal proceedings are described in detail in our Legal Proceedings Section. These legal proceedings may be a significant distraction to management and could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties, suspensions, debarments and liability to private parties for monetary recoveries and attorneys’ fees, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Litigation and governmental investigations could result in substantial additional costs. Certain states, and federal agencies, are investigating our pricing under certain contracts. Although we are cooperating with the governmental agencies in these matters, they may determine that we have violated some laws or regulations, and if so, we may face sanctions, including, but not limited to, significant monetary penalties, injunctive relief and loss of business. The company has reached a proposed settlement with the staff of the SEC to resolve the previously disclosed SEC inquiry that commenced in July of 2007 and the formal investigation disclosed in January of 2008 with respect to contacts and communications with financial analysts, inventory receipt and reserves, timing of vendor payments, certain intercompany loans, certain payments to foreign officials, inventory obsolescence and timing and recognition of vendor program funds. Under the proposed settlement, the company, without admitting or denying liability, has agreed to pay a civil penalty and to consent to a cease and desist order from committing or causing violations of Regulation FD and Sections 13(a) and 13(b) of the Securities Exchange 11 Table of Contents Act of 1934 (and related rules) which require the maintenance of accurate books and records and internal controls. The proposed settlement is contingent on the review and approval of final documentation by the company and the SEC staff, and is subject to approval by the SEC Commissioners. There can be no assurance that the SEC Commissioners will approve the staff’s recommendation. The company has also been informed that the company’s CEO and two former employees each received “Wells” notices from the staff of the SEC’s Miami Regional Office advising them that the regional staff has made a preliminary decision to recommend that the SEC bring civil enforcement actions against them for possible violations of Regulation FD. Under the processes established by the SEC, these individuals will have an opportunity to present their perspective and to address the issues raised by the SEC staff prior to any action being taken by the SEC. See “Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings” for a description of pending litigation and governmental proceedings and investigations. Competition — We compete with a variety of retailers, dealers, distributors, contract stationers, direct marketers and internet operators throughout our worldwide operations. This is a highly competitive marketplace that includes such retail competitors as office supply stores, warehouse clubs, computer and electronics stores, mass merchant retailers, local merchants, grocery and drug-store chains as well as other competitors including direct mail and internet merchants, contract stationers, and direct manufacturers. Our competitors may be local, regional, national or international. Further, competition may come from highly-specialized low-cost merchants, including ink refill stores and kiosks, original equipment manufacturers, concentrated direct marketing channels including well-funded and broad-based enterprises. There is a possibility that any or all of these competitors could become more aggressive in the future, thereby increasing the number and breadth of our competitors. In recent years, new and well-funded competitors have begun competing in certain aspects of our business. For example, two major common carriers of goods have retail outlets that allow them to compete directly for copy, printing, packaging and shipping business, and offer products and services similar to those we offer. While they do not yet have the breadth of products that we offer, they are extremely competitive in the areas of package shipping and copy and print centers. Recently, the so-called warehouse clubs have expanded upon their “in-store” offerings by adding catalog and internet sales channels, offering a broad assortment of office products for sale on a direct delivery basis. In order to achieve and maintain expected profitability levels in our three operating divisions, we must continue to grow by adding new customers and taking market share from competitors and using pricing necessary to retain existing customers. If we fail to adequately address and respond to these pressures in both North America and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Government Contracts — One of our largest U.S. customer groups consists of various state and local governments, government agencies and non-profit organizations. Our relationship with this customer group is subject to uncertain future funding levels and federal and state procurement laws and requires restrictive contract terms; any of these factors could curtail current or future business. Contracting with state and local governments is highly competitive and can be expensive and time-consuming, often requiring that we incur significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a contract. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain business with the federal and various state and local governments is highly dependent on cost-effective performance. Our government business is also sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and U.S., state and local government budgets. Execution of Expansion Plans — We plan to open approximately 20 stores in the North American Retail Division during 2010. Circumstances outside of our control could negatively impact these anticipated store openings. We cannot determine with certainty whether our new store openings, including some newly sized or formatted stores or retail concepts, will be successful. The failure to expand by successfully opening new stores as planned, or the failure of a significant number of these stores to perform as planned, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents International Activity — As of December 26, 2009, we sold to customers in 51 countries throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. We operate wholly-owned entities, majority-owned entities or participate in other ventures covering 40 countries and have alliances in an additional 11 countries. As a result of our global operations, we face such risks as foreign currency fluctuations, unfavorable foreign trade policies, unstable political and economic conditions, and, because some of our foreign operations are not wholly owned, the potential for compromised operating control in certain countries. In addition, we are required to comply with multiple foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country, requiring significant management attention and cost. In addition, the business cultures in certain areas of the world are different than those that prevail in the United States, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage against other companies that do not have to comply with standards of financial controls, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act requirements, or business integrity that we are committed to maintaining as a U.S. publicly traded company. Our results may continue to be affected by all of these factors. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product Availability; Potential Cost Increases — In addition to selling our private brand merchandise, we are a reseller of manufacturers’ branded items and are thereby dependent on the availability and pricing of key products, including ink, toner, paper and technology products, to name a few. As a reseller, we cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products we offer for sale. Disruptions in the availability of raw materials used in production of these products may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. Further, we cannot control the cost of manufacturers’ products and cost increases must either be passed along to our customers or result in an erosion of our earnings. Failure to identify desirable products and make them available to our customers when desired and at attractive prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Global Sourcing of Products/Private Brand — In recent years, we have substantially increased the number and types of products that we sell under our private brands including Office Depot® and other proprietary brands. Sources of supply may prove to be unreliable, or the quality of the globally sourced products may vary from our expectations. Economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where we source such products, as well as shipping and dockage issues could adversely impact the availability or cost of such products, or both. Moreover, as we seek indemnities from the manufacturers of these products, the uncertainty of realization of any such indemnity and the lack of understanding of U.S. product liability laws in certain parts of Asia make it more likely that we may have to respond to claims or complaints from our customers. Most of our imported goods to the United States arrive from Asia, and the ports through which these goods are imported are located primarily on the U.S. West Coast. Therefore, we are subject to potential disruption of our supplies of goods for resale due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports. Finally, as a significant importer of manufactured goods from foreign countries, we are vulnerable to security concerns, labor unrest and other factors that may affect the availability and reliability of ports of entry for the products that we source. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Possible Business Disruption Because of Weather — Weather conditions may affect any business, especially retail businesses, including snow storms, high winds and heavy rain. Because of our heavy concentration in the southern United States (including Florida and the Gulf Coast), our company may be more susceptible than some others to the effects of tropical weather disturbances. For example, during 2004 and 2005, we sustained disruption to our businesses in the United States due to the number and severity of weather events in the Southeastern United States, including record numbers of hurricanes. Winter storm conditions in the Midwest and Southwest, areas that also have a large concentration of our business activities, could result in supply chain constraints or other business disruptions. We believe that we have taken reasonable precautions to prepare for any such weather-related events, but our precautions may not be adequate to deal with such events in the future. As these events occur in the future, if they should impact areas in which we have concentrations of retail stores or distribution facilities, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents New Systems and Technology — From time to time, we modify our information systems and technology to increase productivity and efficiency. We are undertaking certain system enhancements and conversions that, if not done properly, could divert the attention of our workforce during development and implementation and constrain for some time our ability to provide the level of service our customers demand as well as our ability to complete requisite filings with the SEC. Also, when implemented, the new systems and technology may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to our ongoing operations. A failure to effectively convert to these systems or to realize the intended efficiencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Labor — We are heavily dependent upon our labor force to identify new customers and provide desired products and services to existing customers. We attempt to attract and retain an appropriate level of personnel in both field operations and corporate functions. Our compensation packages are designed to provide benefits commensurate with our level of expected service. However, within our retail operations, we face the challenge of filling many positions at wage scales that are appropriate to the industry and competitive factors. We operate in a number of jurisdictions. It can be cumbersome to comply with labor laws and regulations, many of which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. This has added to our labor costs in some locales as we have had to add personnel to monitor and track compliance with sometimes arcane rules and regulations that impact retailers in particular. As a result of these and other factors, we face many external risks and internal factors in meeting our labor needs, including competition for qualified personnel, overall unemployment levels, works councils (in our international locations), prevailing wage rates, as well as rising employee benefit costs, including insurance costs and compensation programs. We also engage third parties in some of our processes such as delivery and transaction processing and these providers may face similar issues. Changes in any of these factors, including especially a shortage of available workforce in the areas in which we operate, could interfere with our ability to adequately provide services to customers and result in increasing our labor costs. Any failure to meet increasing demands on securing our workforce could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unionization — While our management believes that our employee relations are good, we cannot be assured that we will not experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of campaigns similar to those faced by our competitors. The potential for unionization could increase if the United States Congress passes federal legislation that would facilitate labor organization. The unionization of a significant portion of our workforce could increase our overall costs at the affected locations and adversely affect our flexibility to run our business in the most efficient manner to remain competitive or acquire new business. In addition, significant union representation would require us to negotiate wages, salaries, benefits and other terms with many of our employees collectively and could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our labor costs or otherwise restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. Fuel Costs — We operate a large network of stores and delivery centers around the globe. As such, we purchase significant amounts of fuel needed to transport products to our stores and customers. We also incur significant shipping costs to bring products from overseas producers to our distribution systems. While we may hedge our anticipated fuel purchases, the underlying commodity costs associated with this transport activity have been volatile in recent periods and disruptions in availability of fuel could cause our operating costs to rise significantly to the extent not covered by our hedges. Additionally, we rely on predictable costs and available energy to light our stores and operate our equipment. Increases in any of the components of energy costs could have an adverse impact on our earnings, as well as our ability to satisfy our customers in a cost effective manner. Any of these factors that could impact the availability or cost of our energy resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Possible Changes to Our Global Tax Rate — As a result of our operations in many foreign countries, in addition to the United States, our global tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Depending upon the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions, our overall 14 Table of Contents tax rate may be lower or higher than that of other companies or higher or lower than our tax rates have been in the past. At any given point in time, we base our estimate of an annual effective tax rate upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of income likely to be generated in any given geography. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from the tax audits that regularly are in process in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax rate. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2009, we recorded tax expense of approximately $322 million to establish valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in certain taxing jurisdictions. Although we anticipate being able to remove the valuation allowances in future periods, as long as they are in place, we are unable to record deferred tax benefits in those jurisdictions. This consequence will cause our effective tax rate to be volatile, possibly changing from period to period. Unfavorable changes in our overall tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory Environment — While businesses are subject to regulatory matters relating to the conduct of their businesses, including consumer protection laws, advertising regulations, wage and hour regulations and the like, certain jurisdictions have taken a particularly aggressive stance with respect to such matters and have stepped up enforcement, including fines and other sanctions. We transact substantial amounts of business in certain such jurisdictions, and to the extent that our business locations are exposed to what might be termed a challenging enforcement environment or legal or regulatory systems that authorize or encourage private parties to pursue relief under so-called private attorney general laws and similar authorizations for private parties to pursue enforcement of governmental laws and regulations, the resulting fines and exposure to third party liability (such as monetary recoveries and recoveries of attorneys fees) could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including the added cost of increased preventative measures that we may determine to be necessary to conduct business in such locales. Compromises of our Information Security — Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on our web site, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. A breach of our security system resulting in customer or employee personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, our online operations at www.officedepot.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. Disclaimer of Obligation to Update We assume no obligation (and specifically disclaim any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 Table of Contents 