Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock or other securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted below are not the only risks of our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Certain risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include the following: Risks and Uncertainties — SED has at various times experienced a decline in net sales in the United States since fiscal 1998 and has incurred operating losses in either its domestic or certain of its foreign operations at various times during the past five fiscal years. Company management is continuing to focus on increasing sales and profit margins and reducing administrative and overhead costs. There is no assurance SED will be successful in connection with these efforts. Failure to effectively improve operating metrics could materially adversely affect SED’s profitability and financial condition. Numerous factors and conditions impact SED’s ability to achieve its profit goals, including, but not limited to, the following: Continuation of distribution agreements — SED operates under formal but cancelable distribution agreements with certain of its suppliers. If these agreements were cancelled, SED would be forced to obtain its products through wholesalers. This would reduce SED’s profit margin on the affected products. Availability of certain products — From time to time, due to production limitations or heavy demand, SED may only be able to purchase a limited amount of popular products from its suppliers. Product margins — SED operates in a very competitive business environment. Accordingly, product margins are continually under pricing pressure. From time to time, SED receives price protection and other considerations from its vendors. While SED has no reason to believe such vendor consideration will not continue, no assurance can be given that such price protection and other considerations will continue to be received in the future. Vendor credit — SED significantly relies on its suppliers for trade credit. Changes by the suppliers in their credit terms could force SED to obtain less favorable financing for its purchases. Product obsolescence — SED offers a broad line of products that are subject to fast technological obsolescence, which increases the risk of inventory markdown. Through its vendor agreements, SED has certain stock return privileges, which vary from supplier to supplier. SED believes stock return 6 programs will continue in the future, but can give no assurance about whether these programs will continue. Consumer electronics — SED has re-entered into the distribution of consumer electronics, which is highly competitive. Some of SED’s competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than SED and SED may be unable to successfully compete with these companies. Failure to successfully penetrate this market could have an adverse impact on SED’s cash flows, financial position and operating results. Credit decisions and losses — SED maintains an experienced customer credit staff and relies on customer payment history and third party data to make customer credit decisions. Nevertheless, SED may experience customer credit losses in excess of its expectations. SED maintains credit insurance policies for certain customers located in the United States and select Latin American countries (subject to certain terms and conditions). However, the terms of the credit insurance agreement require SED to maintain certain minimum standards and policies with respect to extending credit to customers. If SED does not adhere to such policies, the insurance companies may not pay claims submitted by SED. Proportionate control of general and administrative costs — SED attempts to control its overhead costs to keep such costs in line with its sales volume. As sales volumes fluctuate, SED must continually monitor its overhead costs and make adjustments timely and appropriately. Failure to control overhead costs could have an adverse impact on SED’s cash flows, financial position and operating results. Uncertain and possibly volatile economic and political environment in Latin America — The general economic and political environment in both of the countries in which SED operates in Latin America is uncertain and, at times, volatile. As a result of these conditions, SED could experience unexpected costs from its operations in these countries. Availability of credit facilities — SED has operated under a formal credit facility with a bank for many years that was subject to certain collateral limitations and contained certain covenants. During September 2005 a new credit facility was obtained. No assurance can be given that SED will be able to maintain compliance with financial covenants, or obtain waivers in the event of non-compliance, in the future. Failure to maintain compliance with the financial covenants could adversely affect SED’s ability to obtain vendor credit and the overall business operations. The principal credit facility, which expires in September 2011, is further described in Note 4 to SED’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash flows — While not presently expected, SED’s continued operations in Latin America may require additional capital infusion (in the form of advance notes from the parent company or other debt borrowings by a subsidiary). The credit facility restricts the future funding by the parent company of Latin American operations. Operating needs and regulatory matters may restrict SED’s ability to repatriate cash flows from the foreign subsidiaries to the United States. Competition — SED operates in a highly competitive environment. The computer wholesale distribution industry is characterized by intense competition, based primarily on product availability, credit availability, price, speed of delivery, quality and depth of product lines and training, service and support. Weakness in demand in the market intensifies the competitive environment in which the SED operates. SED competes with a variety of regional, national and international wholesale distributors, some of which have greater financial resources than SED. SED also faces competition from companies entering or expanding into the logistics and product fulfillment and e-commerce supply chain services market. Loss of Significant Customers — Customers do not have an obligation to make purchases from SED. In some cases, SED has made adjustments to its systems, vendor offerings, and processes, and made staffing decisions, in order to accommodate the needs of a significant customer. In the event a significant customer decides to make its purchases from another distributor, experiences a significant change in demand from its own customer base, becomes financially unstable, or is acquired by another company, SED’s receipt of revenues may be significantly affected, resulting in an adverse effect on SED’s business. 7 Dependence on Information Systems — SED is highly dependent upon its internal computer and telecommunication systems to operate its business. There can be no assurance that SED’s information systems will not fail or experience disruptions, that SED will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the operation of such systems, that SED will be able to expand and improve its information systems, that SED will be able to convert to new systems efficiently, or that SED will be able to integrate new programs effectively with its existing programs. Any of such problems could have an adverse effect on SED’s business. Dependence on Independent Shipping Companies — SED relies on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as Federal Express and United Parcel Service, for the delivery of its products from vendors and to customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse effect on SED’s business. SED may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs and added security. There can be no assurance that SED will be able to pass along the full effect of an increase in these surcharges to its customers. Foreign Currency Exchange Risks; Exposure to Foreign Markets — SED conducts business in countries outside of the United States, which exposes SED to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. SED may enter into short-term forward exchange or option contracts to hedge this risk; nevertheless, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on SED’s business. In particular, the value of SED’s equity investment in foreign countries may fluctuate based upon changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These fluctuations, which are recorded in a cumulative translation adjustment account, may result in losses in the event a foreign subsidiary is sold or closed at a time when the foreign currency is weaker than when SED initially invested in the country. SED’s international operations are subject to other risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of certain technology, political instability, trade restrictions, tariff changes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of laws (in particular related to items such as duty and taxation), difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer collection periods and the impact of local economic conditions and practices. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have an adverse effect on SED’s business. Changes in Income Tax and Other Regulatory Legislation — SED believes it operates in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. When new legislation is enacted with minimal advance notice, or when new interpretations or applications of existing laws are made, SED may need to implement changes in its policies or structure. SED makes plans for its structure and operations based upon existing laws and anticipated future changes in the law. SED is susceptible to unanticipated changes in legislation, especially relating to income and other taxes, import/export laws, hazardous materials and electronic waste recovery legislation, and other laws related to trade, accounting, and business activities. Such changes in legislation, both domestic and international, may have a significant adverse effect on SED’s business. Changes in Accounting Rules — SED prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions before a change is announced. Exposure to Natural Disasters, War, and Terrorism — SED’s headquarters facilities and some of its logistics centers as well as certain vendors and customers are located in areas prone to natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, or earthquakes. In addition, demand for SED’s services is concentrated in major metropolitan areas. Adverse weather conditions, major electrical failures or other natural disasters in these major metropolitan areas may disrupt SED’s business should its ability to distribute products be impacted by such an event. 8 SED operates in multiple geographic markets, several of which may be susceptible to acts of war and terrorism. SED’s business could be adversely affected should its ability to distribute products be impacted by such events. SED and many of its suppliers receive parts and products from Asia and operate in many parts of the world that may be susceptible to disease or epidemic that may disrupt SED’s ability to receive or deliver products or other disruptions in operations. Volatility of Common Stock Price — Because of the foregoing factors, as well as other variables affecting SED’s operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. In addition, SED’s participation in a highly dynamic industry often results in significant volatility of the common stock price. Some of the factors that may affect the market price of the common stock, in addition to those discussed above, are changes in investment recommendations by securities analysts, changes in market valuations of competitors and key vendors, and fluctuations in the overall stock market, but particularly in the technology sector. Our Common Stock Has Been Thinly Traded, Liquidity Is Limited — Our common stock is now traded on the Pink OTC Markets Inc. over-the-counter market, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the American or New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the Nasdaq National Market or Small Cap Market). Often there is a limited volume of trading in our common stock, and on many days there has been no trading activity at all. Purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 