Item 1A. Risk Factors Due to the Company’s dependency on the energy, telecommunication and data communication industries, the Company is susceptible to negative trends relating to those industries that could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s sales to the energy, telecommunication and data communication industries represent a substantial portion of the Company’s historical sales. The concentration of revenue in such industries is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. Demand for products to these industries depends primarily on capital spending by customers for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading their systems. The amount of capital spending and, therefore, the Company’s sales and profitability are affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, access by customers to financing, government regulation, demand for energy and cable services and technological factors in these sectors have caused some of the Company’s customers and potential customers to experience financial difficulties. As a result, some may not continue as going concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Consolidation and deregulation present the additional risk to the Company that combined or deregulated customers will continue to supply relationships with a source other than the Company. Consolidation and deregulation may also increase the pressure on suppliers, such as the Company, to sell product at lower prices. The Company’s business will suffer if the Company fails to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the changing needs of the Company’s customers. The Company’s ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in the Company’s ability to grow and remain competitive. New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new designs and processes and a substantial capital commitment. The trend toward consolidation of the energy, telecommunication and data communication industries may require the Company to quickly adapt to rapidly changing market conditions and customer requirements. Any failure by the Company to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments or changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction or any failure of new products to be widely accepted by the Company’s customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition as a result of reduced net revenues. The intense competition in the Company’s markets, particularly telecommunication and data communication markets, may lead to a reduction in sales and profits. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive. The level of intensity of competition may increase in the foreseeable future due to anticipated growth in the telecommunication and data communication industries. The Company’s competitors in the telecommunication and data communication markets are larger companies with significant influence over the distribution network. The product lines within the data communication market have thin profit margins. Success in these product lines depends upon the Company’s ability to increase volume and reduce the cost structure. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against its competitors, many of which may have access to greater financial resources than the Company. In addition, the pace of technological development in the telecommunication and data communication markets is rapid and the Company cannot assure that these advances (wireless, fiber optic network infrastructure, etc.) will not adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete in this market. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products or products under development obsolete or unmarketable. The energy, telecommunication and data communication industries are characterized by rapid technological change. Satellite, wireless and other communication technologies currently being deployed may represent a threat to copper, coaxial and fiber optic-based systems by reducing the need for wire-line networks. There can be no assurance that future advances or further development of these or other new technologies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition as a result of lost sales. Price increases of raw materials could result in lower earnings. The Company’s cost of sales may be materially adversely affected by increases in the market prices of the raw materials used in the Company’s manufacturing processes. There can be no assurance that price increases in 13 Table of Contents raw materials can be passed on to the Company’s customers through increases in product prices. As a result, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. The Company’s international operations subject the Company to additional business risks. International sales account for a substantial portion of the Company’s net sales (44%, 42% and 41% in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively) and the Company expects these sales will increase as a percentage of net sales in the future. Due to its international sales, the Company is subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, fluctuations in the U.S. dollar which could materially adversely affect U.S. dollar revenues or operating expenses, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, potentially longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights, potentially adverse taxes and the burdens of complying with a variety of international laws and communications standards. The Company is also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, in connection with its international operations. There can be no assurance that these risks of conducting business internationally will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that it may acquire in the future. A portion of the Company’s growth in sales and earnings has been generated from acquisitions. The Company expects to continue a strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products. In connection with this strategy, the Company faces certain risks and uncertainties relating to acquisitions. The factors affecting this exposure are in addition to the risks faced in the Company’s day-to-day operations. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the risks pertaining to integrating acquired businesses. In addition, the Company may incur debt to finance future acquisitions, and the Company may issue securities in connection with future acquisitions that may dilute the holdings of current and future shareholders. Covenant restrictions relating to such indebtedness could restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends, fund capital expenditures, consummate additional acquisitions and significantly increase the Company’s interest expense. Any failure to successfully complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate such strategic acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Control by principal shareholders could inhibit potential change of control. The Company’s officers and directors as a group own or control approximately 56% of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Shares. As a result of such ownership, the officers and directors as a group will be able to elect all of the directors of the Company and to control the Company’s affairs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company does not have any unresolved staff comments at December 31, 2005. 