Item 1A. Risk Factors Due to the Company’s dependency on the energy and telecommunication industries, the Company is susceptible to negative trends relating to those industries that could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s sales to the energy and telecommunication industries represent a substantial portion of the Company’s historical sales. The concentration of revenue in such industries is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. Demand for products to these industries depends primarily on capital spending by customers for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading their systems. The amount of capital spending and, therefore, the Company’s sales and profitability are affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, access by customers to financing, government regulation, demand for energy and cable services, and technological factors. As a result, some customers may significantly reduce their spending or may not continue as going concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Consolidation presents an additional risk to the Company in that merged customers will rely on relationships with a source other than the Company. Consolidation may also increase the pressure on suppliers, such as the Company, to sell product at lower prices. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s business will suffer if the Company fails to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the changing needs of the Company’s customers. The Company’s ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in the Company’s ability to grow and remain competitive. New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new designs and processes and a substantial capital commitment. The trend toward consolidation of the energy, telecommunication and data communication industries may require the Company to quickly adapt to rapidly changing market conditions and customer requirements. Any failure by the Company to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments or changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction or any failure of new products to be widely accepted by the Company’s customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition as a result of reduced net sales. The intense competition in the Company’s markets, particularly telecommunication, may lead to a reduction in sales and earnings. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive. The level of intensity of competition may increase in the foreseeable future due to anticipated growth in the telecommunication and data communication industries. The Company’s competitors in the telecommunication and data communication markets are larger companies with significant influence over the distribution network. The Company may not be able to compete successfully against its competitors, many of which may have access to greater financial resources than the Company. In addition, the pace of technological development in the telecommunication market is rapid and these advances (i.e., wireless, fiber optic network infrastructure, etc.) may adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete in this market. Competitors’ introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products or products under development obsolete or unmarketable and result in lost sales. The energy and telecommunication industries are characterized by rapid technological change. Satellite, wireless and other communication technologies currently being deployed may represent a threat to copper, coaxial and fiber optic-based systems by reducing the need for wire-line networks. Future advances or further development of these or other new technologies may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition as a result of lost sales. Price increases or decreased availability of raw materials could result in lower earnings. The Company’s cost of sales may be materially adversely affected by increases in the market prices of the raw materials used in the Company’s manufacturing processes. The Company may not be able to pass on price increases in raw materials to the Company’s customers through increases in product prices. As a result, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, any decrease or delay in the availability of these materials could slow production and delivery to the Company’s customers. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission established disclosure requirements regarding the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (“Conflict Mineral Rules”). These requirements could adversely affect the availability and pricing of minerals subject to the Conflict Mineral Rules used in the Company’s products. The Company’s international operations subject the Company to additional business risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. International sales account for a substantial portion of the Company’s net sales (61%, 60% and 59% in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively) and the Company expects these sales will increase as a percentage of net sales in the future. Due to its international sales, the Company is subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, 13 Table of Contents including unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, which could materially adversely affect U.S. dollar sales or operating expenses, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, potentially longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights, potentially adverse taxes and the burdens of complying with a variety of international laws and communications standards. The Company is subject to foreign currency volatility which could materially impact the Company’s results. The Company is also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, social unrest, terrorism and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, in connection with its international operations. These risks of conducting business internationally may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that it may acquire in the future or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. A portion of the Company’s growth in sales and earnings has been generated from acquisitions. The Company expects to continue a strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products. In connection with this strategy, the Company faces certain risks and uncertainties relating to acquisitions. The factors affecting this exposure are in addition to the risks faced in the Company’s day-to-day operations. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the risks pertaining to integrating acquired businesses, realizing the benefits of acquired technology and utilizing new personnel. In addition, the Company may incur debt to finance future acquisitions, and the Company may issue securities in connection with future acquisitions that may dilute the holdings of current and future shareholders. Covenant restrictions relating to additional indebtedness could restrict the Company’s ability to pay dividends, fund capital expenditures, consummate additional acquisitions and significantly increase the Company’s interest expense. Any failure to successfully complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate such strategic acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company may have interruptions in or lose business due to the uncertainty of the global economy, specifically the potential impact of bankruptcy among the Company’s suppliers and lack of available funding for the Company’s customers. The Company relies on sole source manufacturers for certain materials that complement the Company’s product lines. The current state of economic uncertainty presents a risk that existing suppliers could go out of business or significantly raise their prices. If, due to any of these risk factors, the Company had to relocate the tooling and processes to other manufacturers, there could be an adverse effect on the supply and the Company’s ability to make products on a timely basis. In addition, the demand for the Company’s products is significantly affected by the amount of discretionary business and consumer spending, each of which is impacted by the uncertainty of the global economy. The liquidity and financial position of the Company’s customers could also impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. This lack of funding could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may be adversely impacted by laws, regulation, and litigation. The Company is subject to various laws and regulation. For example, extensive environmental regulations related to air and water quality, the discharge of pollutants, the handling of toxic waste and the handling and transport of products and components classified as hazardous impact its daily operations. The introduction of new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, could increase the costs of doing business. We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Others, including our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate or design around our intellectual property, and 14 Table of Contents in such cases we could not assert our intellectual property rights against such parties. We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our technology infringes upon or otherwise violate a third party’s proprietary rights. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful, especially in countries where such rights are more difficult to enforce. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to obtain third party intellectual property could harm our business and ability to compete. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company does not have any unresolved staff comments. 