Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below. Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant amount of our assets and operations are located outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the Euro. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our foreign operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we purchase certain foreign-made products. Although we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure and, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Failure to maintain relationships with our largest customers and failure by our customers to continue to purchase expected quantities of our products due to changes in market conditions would have an adverse effect on our operations. We anticipate that our automotive customers, including Daimler and Audi/VW, will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. However, neither Daimler, Audi/VW, nor our other automotive customers are obligated to any long-term purchases of our products. The loss of sales to Daimler, Audi/VW, or to any of our other significant automotive customers, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial position. In recent years, we held a majority of Daimlers infotainment and audio system business. Automakers customarily maintain dual sourcing arrangements, so our supply relationship with Daimler exceeded expectations. Daimler made strategic decisions in 2006 and 2007 to move to dual sourcing, and as a result, our share of Mercedes business has declined in fiscal 2008 and will further decline in fiscal 2009. Thereafter, the production volume reaches a stable level which is still substantial. However, it is lower than the peak levels of 2006 and 2007. This change in Daimler volume reduces our single customer dependence. Sales increases with other automotive customers have offset the reduction in sales at Daimler. 9 Index Our products may not satisfy shifting consumer demand or compete successfully with competitors products. Our business is based on the demand for audio and video products and our ability to introduce distinctive new products that anticipate changing consumer demands and capitalize upon emerging technologies. If we fail to introduce new products, misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for our products could decrease and our brand image could suffer. In addition, our competitors may introduce superior designs or business strategies, impairing our distinctive image and our products desirability. If any of these events occur, our sales could decline. A decrease in discretionary spending would likely reduce our sales. Our sales are dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which may be adversely impacted by economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales. In addition, our sales of audio, electronic and infotainment products to automotive customers are dependent on the overall success of the automobile industry, as well as the willingness of automobile purchasers to pay for the option of a premium branded automotive audio system or a multi-function digital infotainment system. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain raw materials and components from our suppliers on favorable terms. We are dependent upon third party suppliers, both in the United States and other countries, for various components, parts, raw materials and finished products. Some of our suppliers may produce products that compete with our products. We use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption in our supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Failure to deliver products on time to our automotive customers could adversely affect our financial results. We have products in various stages of development for our automotive customers. If we do not complete our development efforts in time to meet our customers vehicle production requirements, we could be subject to monetary penalties and damage our customer relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected by a strike or work stoppage at one of our manufacturing plants or at a facility of one of our significant customers or at a common carrier or major shipping location. Certain of our automotive customers are unionized and may incur work stoppages or strikes. A work stoppage at our facilities or those of our automotive customers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial condition. In addition, a work stoppage at a common carrier or a major shipping location could also have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial condition. 10 Index Obligations to correct product defects covered by our warranties could adversely affect our financial results. We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six months to six years. Costs to correct product defects may exceed our estimates and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales to customers in the automotive industry, where companies have experienced financial difficulties. As part of the bankruptcy process, our pre-petition receivables may not be realized, customer manufacturing sites may be closed or contracts voided. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on the Companys liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. We may lose market share if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The audio and video product markets that we serve are fragmented, highly competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by intense price competition. Many manufacturers, large and small, domestic and foreign, offer audio and video systems that vary widely in price and quality and are marketed through a variety of channels, including audio and video specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail order firms, and the Internet. Some of our competitors have financial and other resources greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that may enter our markets. We also compete indirectly with automobile manufacturers that may improve the quality of original equipment audio and electronic systems, reducing demand for our aftermarket mobile audio products, or change the designs of their cars to make installation of our aftermarket products more difficult or expensive. If we do not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products, our sales may decrease. In order to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, we must maintain and improve existing products, while successfully developing and introducing new products. Our new and enhanced products must respond to technological developments and changing consumer preferences. We may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Furthermore, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in some of our products before we ship them. Delays or defects in new product introduction may result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. Even after introduction, our new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, our competitors new products and product enhancements may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of our products. 11 Index Our operations could be harmed by factors including political instability, natural disasters, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our distributors and suppliers. These risks include: changes in tariff regulations; political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; import and export licensing requirements; compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the United States; and difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. These and other risks may increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products. If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property, our business may decline. Our future success will depend, in substantial part, on our intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights, but our actions may not adequately protect the rights covered by our patents, patent applications, trademarks and other proprietary rights and prosecution of our claims could be time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights, as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, third parties may obtain, disclose or use our proprietary information without our authorization, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe their proprietary rights. These claims or similar future claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, limit our ability to use infringing intellectual property or force us to license third-party technology rather than dispute the merits of any infringement claim. Even if we prevail, any associated litigation could be time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. 12 Index Covenants in our existing debt agreements could restrict our operations. Our existing revolving credit facility and the indenture for our convertible senior notes contain provisions that could restrict our operating and financing activities. Together, they restrict our ability to, among other things: incur debt; create or assume liens; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; and engage in mergers or consolidations. Because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may have difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains other and more restrictive covenants, including financial covenants that will require us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain compliance with these covenants. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements, the related debt incurred under those agreements could be declared immediately due and payable, which could also trigger a default under other agreements. Our ability to meet the covenants or requirements in our credit facilities and the indenture for our convertible senior notes may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy these covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the applicable agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the applicable agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. We are engaged in ongoing litigation and may be the subject of additional litigation that may result in payments to third parties, which could harm our business and financial results. As more fully described in Part II, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, of this report, we are currently involved in litigation arising out of or relating to the events leading up to the termination of the proposed acquisition of the Company in October 2007 or any earnings guidance provided by the Company. In addition, similar litigation has been and may be initiated against us and others based on the alleged activities and disclosures at issue in the pending litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any such proceeding or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm our business or financial results. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of our managements time and attention away from our business. 13 Index Harman International is a holding company with no operations of its own and therefore our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to Harman International, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries earnings and are subject to various business considerations. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results and events contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report will in fact transpire. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Index 