ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If our efforts to attract, retain and grow our base of Participating Retailers are not successful, our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our current PPT Division business depends on traditional “brick and mortar” retailers actively participating in our PPT System. Declines in the numbers of Participating Retailers and the volumes of Units leased by Participating Retailers from us could ultimately lead to reductions in revenue and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Participating Retailers could establish relationships with Program Suppliers and enter into direct revenue sharing agreements. If our Participating Retailers formed direct revenue sharing relationships with Program Suppliers, the need for our PPT system would be greatly reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and liquidity. If the financial stability of our Participating Retailers and their performance of their obligations under our PPT System declines, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Our ultimate success is highly dependent on the successful operations of our Participating Retailers. If their business declines due to changes in customer behavior, competition, management issues or other factors, they may be unable to meet their financial obligations to us. This could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A loss of a significant Program Supplier, our ability to retain our base of Participating Suppliers along with the quality and volumes of content they provide, and adverse changes in terms of our revenue sharing agreements with Program Suppliers could result in a decline in revenues and results of operations and have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We rely on our Program Suppliers for Units we sublease to Participating Retailers. A decrease in the number of Program Suppliers participating in our system, a decline in the financial stability of our Program Suppliers and/or a decline in the quality and volume of the content they produce could result in a reduction in overall Units available to Participating Retailers. Additionally, many of our agreements with Program Suppliers may be terminated upon relatively short notice. Therefore, there is no assurance that any of the Program Suppliers will continue to distribute Units through the PPT System, continue to have titles available which we can distribute on a profitable basis, or continue to remain in business. Even if titles are otherwise available from Program Suppliers, there is no assurance that they will be made available on terms acceptable to us. A loss of any of our significant suppliers or a change in any one of the above conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. If our efforts to attract, retain and grow our base of clients who subscribe to our Essentials™ services are not successful, we may not be able to expand those lines and our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our AMI Division depends on effective software solutions, marketing, sales and customer relations in regards to existing services as well as our clients’ acceptance of future enhancements and new services. If we are unable to retain existing clients and/or secure new clients, our operating costs may exceed our revenues, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial 10 Table of Contents condition, cash flows and liquidity. We may be unable to obtain requisite data and other content to source our systems which provide our Essentials™ services. Our Essentials™ services rely on data which is collected from a wide variety of sources. Once received, the data must be reviewed, processed and, at times, converted to our required file format. If we are unable to obtain quality data feeds and/or process that data timely, we may not be able to meet the needs of our clients. Thus, we could lose clients, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our Essentials™ lines of business, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. Our Essentials™ services are highly dependent on Information Technology resources. If we are unable to attract, hire and retain high quality information technology personnel at reasonable rates, we may not be able to timely meet the needs of existing clients and may not be able to enhance existing services or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. The market for on demand advertising has been slow to develop and may not grow for several years. The success of our on demand ad tracking module is dependent on the market adoption of on demand advertising, the rollout of dynamic ad insertion technology by the operator and the automation of files regarding the location of advertising in on demand content. If the market does not evolve, we risk failing to meet our internal financial projections, resulting in an inability to recoup our investment. Multi-Screen Essentials™ faces competition from companies with significantly greater resources than us and the marketplace may be slow in adapting to the new technology, which could negatively affect the future prospects for Multi-Screen Essentials™. Our primary competitors currently are Nielsen, TNS (Taylor Nelson Sofres) and GFK Equity Research. However, the marketplace has indicated that our census-driven technology service solutions are superior and outpace those solutions developed to date by our competitors. Each of these competitors has significantly greater resources than us, which could allow them to become more formidable competitors with enhanced technology service solutions. Additionally, the data providers may be reluctant or ultimately decide not to grant us adequate access to their digital transaction data. The owners of the data may impose more restrictions on the use and reporting of that data, which may make it difficult to realize the full extent of viable services we anticipate. The marketplace (e.g. advertisers, advertising agencies and television networks) may be reluctant to adopt a new standard of viewership measurement. These factors, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow this line of business as well as on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our DRS business is dependent on the studios maintaining direct revenue sharing relationships with the largest brick-and-mortar and online retailers. We currently collect, process, audit, summarize and report transactional data relating to rental and sales activity of Units at very large traditional and online retailers who have revenue sharing agreements directly with major studios. There are a number of risks that may adversely affect the size and profitability of our DRS business. First and foremost, our business is dependent on the DRS clients maintaining DRS relationships with the DRS retailers. Should the DRS clients end their DRS relationships, they would have no need for our DRS service. Second, our current DRS clients could decide to invest the resources necessary to provide DRS services internally. Third, SPHE could decide to improve SuperComm’s service offering, and successfully compete for one or more of our DRS clients. Lastly, if the overall size of the home entertainment rental market contracts significantly, and/or the large brick-and-mortar and online retailers’ share of the overall rental market declines significantly, as it did when Movie Gallery closed a 11 Table of Contents substantial number of stores, the amount of data we process and audit on behalf of our DRS clients would also be reduced, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our DRS revenues. These, and other, factors could potentially reduce the need for our services and the quantity of data we process, which would negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We face intense competition in the markets in which we operate and those in which we are currently developing new service offerings. Some of our competitors have extensive distribution networks, long-standing relationships with our suppliers and customers, stronger brand name recognition and significantly greater financial resources than us. These factors may enable our competition to have increased bargaining and purchasing power relating to resources that could enable them to operate in a more cost effective manner and/or to surpass our technological advancements. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our lines of business. Our PPT business is greatly influenced by 1) technological advancements, 2) consumer behaviors and demand; and 3) changes in the industries in which we operate. The markets in which our PPT division operates are highly competitive, rapidly changing and influenced greatly by consumer spending patterns and behaviors. The end consumer has a wide variety of choices from which to select their entertainment content. Some examples include renting Units of product from our Participating Retailers, ordering product directly via online subscriptions and/or online distributors, subscribing to at-home movie channels, purchasing and owning the Unit directly or selecting an at-home “pay-per-view” option. Our systems primarily rely on the end consumer choosing to rent Units from traditional “brick and mortar” retailers. Technological advancements, changes in distribution methods as well as lower pricing models may make other options more attractive to consumers and thereby materially diminish the demand for obtaining Units via traditional retailers. Such a consequence could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our services are highly dependent on the effective and efficient usage of technology and our overall information management infrastructure. If we are unable to acquire, establish and maintain our information management systems to ensure accurate, reliable and timely data processed in an efficient and cost effective manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of existing clients and may not be able to enhance existing services or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our business and long-term growth. The loss of our executive officers and key employees could have an adverse impact on our business and development initiatives. We believe that the development of our business has been, and will continue to be, dependent on certain key executives and employees of Rentrak. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development, and there can be no assurance that adequate replacements could be found in the event of their unavailability. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 