ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our HE Division is challenged by the combined effects of technological advancements, changing consumer behaviors and demand, and fundamental changes affecting the industries in which the division operates. The markets in which our HE Division operates are highly competitive, rapidly changing and influenced greatly by consumer spending patterns and behaviors. The end consumer has a wide variety of choices in entertainment generally and video entertainment content in particular, and can easily shift from one provider to another and from one technology to another. Some examples of options available to consumers include renting product from our Participating Retailers or other retailers, ordering product directly via online subscriptions or distributors (mail delivery), renting or purchasing product from kiosk locations, subscribing to at-home movie channels, downloading or streaming content via the Internet, purchasing product directly, selecting an at-home “pay-per-view” or “video-on-demand” option, or relying on cable or satellite programming exclusively. Our systems primarily rely on the end consumer choosing to rent Units from traditional “brick and mortar” retailers, a practice that is decreasing in popularity. Technological advancements, changes in distribution methods and pricing reductions have made other options more attractive to consumers in recent years and materially diminished the demand for obtaining Units via traditional retailers. This trend is likely to continue and is expected to result in lower revenue from our HE Division, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Certain Entertainment Essentials™ services face various obstacles to widespread market adoption, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours. Our Entertainment Essentials™ services are dependent on several factors for long-term success, including our ability to compete with larger and more seasoned competitors in this market. Our primary competitors currently are Nielsen, Kantar and TiVo. Each of these competitors has significantly greater resources than we do, which could allow them to become more formidable competitors with enhanced technology service solutions. Additionally, we face other obstacles. For instance, data providers may be reluctant or ultimately decide not to grant us adequate access to their digital transaction data, which is a key component of our systems. The owners of the data may also impose greater restrictions on the use and reporting of data, which may make it difficult to realize fully the opportunities we anticipate for our products and related services. Further, the marketplace (such as advertisers, advertising agencies and television networks) may be reluctant to adopt a new standard of viewership measurement. These factors could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow this line of business, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be unable to obtain requisite data and other content to source our systems which provide our Essentials™ services. Our Essentials™ services rely on data collected from a wide variety of sources. Once received, the data must be reviewed, processed, integrated and, at times, converted to our required file format. If we are unable to obtain quality data feeds and process that data in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of our clients, and we could lose clients. The loss of a significant number of Essentials™ clients would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our Essentials™ lines of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business model continues to shift from the HE Division to the AMI Division, which has a limited history and may not be able to grow as quickly as we expect. Our business has historically focused on the HE Division, which represented 64.9% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2011. Revenue has been steadily declining in this division, and, while we are attempting to slow that revenue decline, our future success depends upon the growth and success of the AMI Division, which has limited history. An inability to grow revenue in the AMI Division and/or achieve our expected operating results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have operations outside of the United States that subject us to legal, business, political, cultural and other risks of international operations. We operate globally, which subjects us to a number of risks and burdens, including: • staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • the possibility of protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • price and currency exchange rates and controls; • taxes and tariffs; • different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including longer payment cycles; • political, social, and economic instability; • designing and maintaining effective operating and financial controls; • the possibility of failure of internal controls, including any failure to detect unauthorized transactions; and • increased costs relating to personnel management as a result of government and other regulations. In addition, economic conditions in our overseas markets may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad and benefits we receive from those operations. 13 Table of Contents We may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies, which may be costly, dilutive to shareholders and, in the event we experience difficulties in assimilating and integrating the personnel, technologies, operating systems and products and services of acquired businesses, less beneficial than we anticipate. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies that complement our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities, expand our operations into new markets or offer other growth opportunities. Such acquisitions may be costly and potentially dilutive to existing shareholders in the event we offer capital stock as consideration in an acquisition. Acquisitions could also pose risks to our operations and operating results, including the possibilities of: • increased costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses or technologies; • difficulties assimilating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products into our company; • loss of key personnel at an acquired business who decide not to work for us; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations; • adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers, customers or partners; • a need for additional capital or debt financing to complete acquisitions; and • the impairment of intangible assets acquired. The described risks would be magnified as the size of an acquisition increases or if the acquisitions are in geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. As a result of these and other challenges, we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions even if we can find suitable acquisition opportunities at what we believe to be attractive valuations, which cannot be assured. Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. We primarily operate within the entertainment industry. Our overall success depends on the success of national networks and local stations, studios, cable operators, data providers, advertisers, ad agencies and others within our AMI Division and our Participating Retailers and Program Suppliers within our HE Division. The success of these businesses is dependent on consumer economic activity. For example, our Participating Retailers rely on their customers to rent DVDs, which is a discretionary activity for most consumers. Also, our Box Office Essentials™ clients depend on consumers being interested in, and financially able to attend, movies in theaters. Changes in the economic climate and consumer spending could impact the financial condition of our Participating Retailers, Program Suppliers, customers, studios and others. Such changes that affect our customers could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, if customers of our Essentials™ services and our Participating Retailers experience financial difficulties, they may be unable to continue to purchase our services or pay for services in a timely manner, if at all. This could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We face intense competition in the markets in which we operate and those in which we are currently developing new service offerings. Some of our competitors have extensive distribution networks, long-standing relationships with our suppliers and customers, stronger brand name recognition and significantly greater financial resources than us. These factors may enable our competition to have increased bargaining and purchasing power relating to resources that could enable them to operate in a more cost effective manner and/or to surpass our technological advancements. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our lines of business. 14 Table of Contents Our Participating Retailers may lose a competitive advantage if Program Suppliers change the timing of the release of movies to the various distribution channels. Historically, after the initial release of a movie to theaters, studios would then exclusively distribute the movie to the home video retail market (typically 90 to 120 days after the theatrical release) prior to distributing it in other forms throughout the industry, such as video-on-demand. This created a competitive advantage for our Participating Retailers due to the early distribution window. Some studios have started testing the simultaneous release of their movies to the home video market and through cable, satellite and Internet video-on-demand channels. Approximately one year ago, three Program Suppliers (Warner, Fox and Universal) created a 28-day retail window that delays the availability of their product in kiosks and by-mail subscription offerings. Should studios change the timing of their release windows, or eliminate the exclusive distribution window for the home video retail market, our Participating Retailers may experience reduced revenue as consumers would have simultaneous access to movies via additional distribution channels. Since we share in our Participating Retailers' revenue, this would negatively impact our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. If we lose a significant Program Supplier or large number of smaller Program Suppliers, our Program Suppliers fail to maintain the quality and volumes of content, or there are adverse changes in the terms of our revenue sharing agreements with Program Suppliers, our revenue may decline. We rely on our Program Suppliers for Units we sublease to Participating Retailers. A decrease in the number of Program Suppliers participating in our system, a decline in the financial stability of our Program Suppliers, or a decline in the quality (rental appeal) and quantity (number of theatrical titles) of content they produce, would result in a reduction in overall Units available to Participating Retailers, which could decrease our revenue. Additionally, many of our agreements with Program Suppliers may be terminated upon relatively short notice. Therefore, there is no assurance that any of the Program Suppliers will continue to distribute Units through the PPT System, continue to have titles available which we can distribute on a profitable basis, or continue to remain in business. Even if titles are otherwise available from Program Suppliers, there is no assurance that they will be made available on terms acceptable to us. A loss of any of our significant Program Suppliers or a change in any one of the above conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our Participating Retailers could establish relationships with Program Suppliers and enter into direct revenue sharing agreements. If our Participating Retailers formed direct revenue sharing relationships with Program Suppliers, the need for our PPT System would be greatly reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and cash flows. Our DRS business is dependent on the studios maintaining direct revenue sharing relationships with “brick-and-mortar,” kiosks and online retailers. We currently collect, process, audit, summarize and report transactional data relating to rental and sales activity of Units at very large traditional and online retailers and kiosk locations who have revenue sharing agreements directly with major studios. There are a number of risks that may adversely affect the size and profitability of this DRS business. First and foremost, our business is dependent on the DRS clients maintaining DRS relationships with the DRS retailers. Should these clients end those relationships, they would have no need for our services. Second, our clients could decide to invest the resources necessary to provide these services internally. Lastly, if the overall size of the home entertainment rental market contracts significantly, or the large “brick-and-mortar” and online retailers’ share of the overall rental market declines substantially, the amount of data we process and audit on behalf of our clients would also be reduced, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our revenue. These and other factors could potentially reduce the demand for our services and the quantity of data we process, which would negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents If our efforts to attract, retain and grow our base of Participating Retailers are not successful, our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our HE Division business primarily depends on traditional “brick and mortar” retailers actively participating in our PPT System. Declines in the numbers of Participating Retailers and the volumes of Units leased from us by Participating Retailers could ultimately lead to reductions in revenue and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The future success of our company is highly dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our base of clients who subscribe to our Essentials™ suite of services. The success of our AMI Division depends on effective software solutions, marketing, sales and customer relations for our current services, as well as acceptance of future enhancements and new services by our existing and prospective clients. If we are unable to both retain existing clients and secure new clients for our Essentials™ services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. Our Essentials™ services are highly dependent on employees who are skilled and experienced in information technologies. If we are unable to attract, hire and retain high quality information technology personnel at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to meet the needs of existing clients, enhance existing services, or develop new lines of business. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The market for on demand advertising has been slow to develop and may grow slowly or not at all. We have made significant investments in developing our tracking module for advertisements in on demand programming. The success of our on demand ad tracking module is dependent on several uncertain factors, including market adoption of on demand advertising, rollout of dynamic ad insertion technologies, and the automation of files regarding the location of advertising in on demand content. If the market does not develop, we may be unable to recoup our investments. Measurement services are receiving a high level of consumer group and government scrutiny relating to the privacy issue around the methodologies used in targeted advertising. Although we are confident that our anonymous data aggregation methodologies are compliant with all current privacy laws, it is possible that privacy trends and market perceptions of the transparency of data could result in additional government restrictions or limitations on the use of that data, which would adversely affect many of our products. We believe it is unlikely that we will be required to change or limit our products. Nonetheless, if additional government restrictions are imposed, such restrictions could slow our ability to realize a return on our investments in new data-driven products or result in additional costs not currently anticipated. Our services are highly dependent on the effective and efficient use of technology and our overall information management infrastructure. If we are unable to acquire, establish and maintain our information management systems to ensure accurate, reliable and timely data processed in an efficient and cost effective manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of existing clients and may not be able to enhance existing services or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our business and long-term growth 16 Table of Contents The loss of our executive officers and key employees could have an adverse impact on our business and development initiatives. We believe that the development of our business has been, and will continue to be, dependent on certain key executives and employees of Rentrak. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development, and there is no assurance that adequate replacements could be found in the event of their unavailability. Our stock is subject to price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prevent our shareholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has, at times, experienced substantial price volatility and may continue to be volatile. For example, our common stock price has fluctuated from a high of $30.89 to a low of $20.28 for the 52 weeks ended March 31, 2011. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments; • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; • sales of stock by us or by our shareholders (including sales by our directors, executive officers and other employees); and • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions on shares of our common stock. Oregon law and our shareholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects. The Oregon Control Share Act and the Business Combination Act limit the ability of parties who acquire a significant amount of voting stock to exercise control over us. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required to acquire control of us through a proxy contest or the election of a majority of the Board of Directors. In May 2005, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. The provisions of the Oregon Control Share Act and the Business Combination Act and our shareholder rights plan could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of us, could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and could materially adversely impact the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 