ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Deterioration in the economy could impact our business. We primarily operate within the entertainment industry. Our overall success depends on the success of our Participating Retailers and Program Suppliers within our PPT Division as well as networks, studios, cable operators and others within our AMI Division. For example, our Participating Retailers rely on their customers to rent DVDs, and this spending may be considered discretionary on the part of many of those consumers. Also, our BOE clients’ success is dependent on the interest and ability of end consumers to attend movie theaters. If the overall economy continues to deteriorate, such as in the case of a prolonged recession, our Participating Retailers, Program Suppliers, studios, etc. could experience reduced revenues as a result of their customers’ shift in spending and change in behavior. This change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, if our Participating Retailers and customers of our Essentials™ services experience financial difficulties, they may be unable to continue with our services, and/or may be unable to continue to pay us in a timely manner, if at all. We have noticed a slow-down in collections within our PPT Division during the past few months. A continuation of this trend could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If our efforts to attract, retain and grow our base of Participating Retailers are not successful, our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our current PPT Division business depends on traditional “brick and mortar” retailers actively participating in our PPT System. Declines in the numbers of Participating Retailers and the volumes of Units leased by Participating Retailers from us could ultimately lead to reductions in revenue and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Participating Retailers could establish relationships with Program Suppliers and enter into direct revenue sharing agreements. If our Participating Retailers formed direct revenue sharing relationships with Program Suppliers, the need for our PPT system would be greatly reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and liquidity. If the financial stability of our Participating Retailers and their performance of their obligations under our PPT System declines, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Our ultimate success is highly dependent on the successful operations of our Participating Retailers. If their business declines due to changes in the economy, customer behavior, competition, management issues or other factors, they may be unable to meet their financial obligations to us. This could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A loss of a significant Program Supplier, our ability to retain our base of Program Suppliers along with the quality and volumes of content they provide, and adverse changes in terms of our revenue sharing agreements with Program Suppliers could result in a decline in revenues and results of operations and have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We rely on our Program Suppliers for Units we sublease to Participating Retailers. A decrease in the number of Program Suppliers participating in our system, a decline in the financial stability of our Program Suppliers and/or a decline in the quality (rental appeal) and quantity (number of theatrical titles) of the content they produce would result in a reduction in overall Units available to Participating Retailers. Additionally, many of our agreements with Program Suppliers may be terminated upon relatively short notice. Therefore, there is no assurance that any of the Program Suppliers will continue to distribute Units through the PPT System, continue to have titles available which we can distribute on a profitable basis, or continue to remain in business. Even if titles are otherwise available from Program Suppliers, there is no assurance that they will be made available on terms acceptable to us. A loss of any of our significant 11 Table of Contents suppliers or a change in any one of the above conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our Participating Retailers may lose a competitive advantage if Program Suppliers (studios) change the timing of the release of movies to the various distribution channels. In the PPT Division, historically, after the initial release of a movie to theaters, studios would then exclusively distribute the movie to the home video retail market (typically 90 to 120 days after the theatrical release) prior to distributing it in other forms throughout the industry, such as video-on-demand. This creates a competitive advantage for our Participating Retailers due to the early distribution window. Some studios have started testing the simultaneous release of their movies to the home video market and through cable, satellite and Internet video-on-demand channels on the same date. Should a majority of the studios change the timing of their release windows, or eliminate the exclusive distribution window for the home video retail market, our Participating Retailers may experience reduced revenue as consumers would have simultaneous access to movies via additional distribution channels. Since we share in that revenue, this would negatively impact our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. If our efforts to attract, retain and grow our base of clients who subscribe to our Essentials™ services are not successful, we may not be able to expand those lines and our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our AMI Division depends on effective software solutions, marketing, sales and customer relations in regards to existing services as well as our clients’ acceptance of future enhancements and new services. If we are unable to retain existing clients and/or secure new clients, our operating costs may exceed our revenues, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. We may be unable to obtain requisite data and other content to source our systems which provide our Essentials™ services. Our Essentials™ services rely on data which is collected from a wide variety of sources. Once received, the data must be reviewed, processed and, at times, converted to our required file format. If we are unable to obtain quality data feeds and/or process that data timely, we may not be able to meet the needs of our clients. Thus, we could lose clients, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our Essentials™ lines of business, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. Our Essentials™ services are highly dependent on Information Technology resources. If we are unable to attract, hire and retain high quality information technology personnel at reasonable rates, we may not be able to timely meet the needs of existing clients and may not be able to enhance existing services or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. The market for on demand advertising has been slow to develop and may not grow for several years. The success of our on demand ad tracking module is dependent on the market adoption of on demand advertising, the rollout of dynamic ad insertion technology by the operator and the automation of files regarding the location of advertising in on demand content. If the market does not evolve, we may be unable to recoup our investment. Multi-Screen Essentials™ faces competition from companies with significantly greater resources than us and the marketplace may be slow in adapting to the new technology, which could negatively affect the future prospects for Multi-Screen Essentials™. Our primary competitors currently are Nielsen and TNS (Taylor Nelson Sofres). Each of these competitors 12 Table of Contents has significantly greater resources than us, which could allow them to become more formidable competitors with enhanced technology service solutions. Additionally, the data providers may be reluctant or ultimately decide not to grant us adequate access to their digital transaction data. The owners of the data may impose more restrictions on the use and reporting of that data, which may make it difficult to realize the full extent of viable services we anticipate. The marketplace (e.g. advertisers, advertising agencies and television networks) may be reluctant to adopt a new standard of viewership measurement. These factors, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow this line of business as well as on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Measurement services are receiving a high level of consumer group and government scrutiny to assure privacy protection around advertising targeting methodologies. While we are confident that our anonymous data aggregation methodologies are fully compliant with all current privacy laws, it is possible that the perception of more transparency of set top box data could result in additional government restrictions or limitations on our products. We believe it is unlikely that we will be required to change or limit our products, but, if such additional government restrictions are imposed, this could slow down our ability to meet our projections or result in additional cost not currently anticipated. Our DRS business is dependent on the studios maintaining direct revenue sharing relationships with the largest brick-and-mortar and online retailers. We currently collect, process, audit, summarize and report transactional data relating to rental and sales activity of Units at very large traditional and online retailers who have revenue sharing agreements directly with major studios. There are a number of risks that may adversely affect the size and profitability of our DRS business. First and foremost, our business is dependent on the DRS clients maintaining DRS relationships with the DRS retailers. Should the DRS clients end their DRS relationships, they would have no need for our DRS services. Second, our current DRS clients could decide to invest the resources necessary to provide DRS services internally. Third, SPHE could decide to improve SuperComm’s service offering, or sell it to a third party who will do the same and successfully compete for one or more of our DRS clients. Fourth, our DRS clients could decide that the benefits of our services are not in line with the current cost structure, ultimately leading to reduced DRS revenues. Fifth, MediaMorph and other competitors could successfully establish significant client bases that limit Rentrak’s Digital DRS growth and/or lead to a decline in our DRS revenues. Lastly, if the overall size of the home entertainment rental market contracts significantly, and/or the large brick-and-mortar and online retailers’ share of the overall rental market declines significantly, as it did when Movie Gallery closed a substantial number of stores, the amount of data we process and audit on behalf of our DRS clients would also be reduced, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our DRS revenues. These and other factors could potentially reduce the need for our services and the quantity of data we process, which would negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We face intense competition in the markets in which we operate and those in which we are currently developing new service offerings. Some of our competitors have extensive distribution networks, long-standing relationships with our suppliers and customers, stronger brand name recognition and significantly greater financial resources than us. These factors may enable our competition to have increased bargaining and purchasing power relating to resources that could enable them to operate in a more cost effective manner and/or to surpass our technological advancements. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our lines of business. Our PPT business is greatly influenced by 1) technological advancements, 2) consumer behaviors and demand; and 3) changes in the industries in which we operate. The markets in which our PPT division operates are highly competitive, rapidly changing and influenced greatly by consumer spending patterns and behaviors. The end consumer has a wide variety of choices 13 Table of Contents from which to select their entertainment content and can easily shift from one provider to another. Some examples include renting Units of product from our Participating Retailers, ordering product directly via online subscriptions and/or online distributors (mail delivery), renting or purchasing product from kiosk locations, subscribing to at-home movie channels, downloading or streaming content via the internet, purchasing and owning the Unit directly or selecting an at-home “pay-per-view” or “video-on-demand” option. Our systems primarily rely on the end consumer choosing to rent Units from traditional “brick and mortar” retailers. Technological advancements, changes in distribution methods as well as lower pricing models may make other options more attractive to consumers and thereby materially diminish the demand for obtaining Units via traditional retailers. Such a consequence could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our services are highly dependent on the effective and efficient use of technology and our overall information management infrastructure. If we are unable to acquire, establish and maintain our information management systems to ensure accurate, reliable and timely data processed in an efficient and cost effective manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of existing clients and may not be able to enhance existing services or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our business and long-term growth. The loss of our executive officers and key employees could have an adverse impact on our business and development initiatives. We believe that the development of our business has been, and will continue to be, dependent on certain key executives and employees of Rentrak. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development, and there can be no assurance that adequate replacements could be found in the event of their unavailability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 