ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Economic conditions could negatively impact our business. We primarily operate within the entertainment industry. Our overall success depends on the success of our Participating Retailers and Program Suppliers within our Home Entertainment Division, as well as data providers, networks, studios, cable operators and others within our AMI Division. The success of these businesses is dependent on consumer economic activity. For example, our Participating Retailers rely on their customers to rent DVDs, which is a discretionary activity for most consumers. Also, our Box Office Essentials™ clients depend on consumers being interested in, and financially able to attend, movies in theaters. If a prolonged recession occurs or the economy deteriorates further, or if consumers do not increase spending, our Participating Retailers, Program Suppliers, customers, studios, and others could experience lower revenues as a result of their customers’ decrease in spending or change in spending behaviors. Such changes that affect our customers could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, if our Participating Retailers and customers of our Essentials™ services experience financial difficulties, they may be unable to continue to purchase our services or pay for services in a timely manner, if at all. This could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we fail to successfully integrate and manage the international business operations we acquired from The Nielsen Company in January 2010, we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition and management and other resources may be diverted. On January 29, 2010, we acquired 100% of the shares of Nielsen EDI Limited, a private limited liability company organized and registered under the laws of England and Wales, together with certain assets owned by The Nielsen Company (U.S.), LLC (the “Seller”) located in the United States, Australia, Mexico, Germany, France, Spain and Argentina relating exclusively to the portion of the Seller’s business that provided information and services similar to our Box Office Essentials™ line of business (collectively, the “EDI-Business”). If we fail to successfully integrate the EDI-Business, we may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits, and we may be forced to divert scarce management and other resources to the integration process. We may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies, which may be costly, dilutive to shareholders and, in the event we experience difficulties in assimilating and integrating the personnel, technologies, operating systems and products and services of acquired businesses, less beneficial than we anticipate. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or invest in other companies, products or technologies that complement our current product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities, expand our operations into new markets or offer other growth opportunities. Such acquisitions may be costly and potentially dilutive to existing shareholders in the event we offer capital stock as consideration in an acquisition. Acquisitions could also pose risks to our operations and operating results, including the possibilities of: • increased costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses or technologies; • difficulties assimilating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products into our company; • loss of key personnel at an acquired business who decide not to work for us; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations; • adverse effects on relationships with our existing suppliers, customers or partners; • a need for additional capital or debt financing to complete acquisitions; and • the impairment of intangible assets acquired. The described risks would be magnified as the size of an acquisition increases or if the acquisitions are in geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. As a result of these and other challenges, we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions even if we can find suitable acquisition opportunities at what we believe to be attractive valuations, which cannot be assured. 11 Table of Contents We have recently acquired operations outside of the United States that will subject us to legal, business, political, cultural and other risks of international operations. Our exposure to the business risks presented by operations in foreign countries has increased and will continue to grow to the extent we expand our global operations. International operations will subject us to a number of risks and burdens, including: • staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • the possibility of protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • price and currency exchange rates and controls; • taxes and tariffs; • different business practices and legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including longer payment cycles; • political, social, and economic instability; • designing and maintaining effective operating and financial controls; • the possibility of failure of internal controls, including any failure to detect unauthorized transactions; and • increased costs relating to personnel management as a result of government and other regulations. In addition, economic conditions in our overseas markets may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad and benefits we receive from those operations. If our efforts to attract, retain and grow our base of Participating Retailers are not successful, our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our Home Entertainment Division business depends on traditional “brick and mortar” retailers actively participating in our PPT System. Declines in the numbers of Participating Retailers and the volumes of Units leased from us by Participating Retailers could ultimately lead to reductions in revenue and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Participating Retailers could establish relationships with Program Suppliers and enter into direct revenue sharing agreements. If our Participating Retailers formed direct revenue sharing relationships with Program Suppliers, the need for our PPT System would be greatly reduced, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Our Participating Retailers may have financial difficulties and fail to satisfy their obligations to us. Our ultimate success is highly dependent on the successful operations of our Participating Retailers. If their business declines due to changes in the economy, customer behavior, competition, management issues or other factors, they may be unable to meet their financial obligations to us. If a significant number of our Participating Retailers were to experience financial difficulties, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents If we lose a significant Program Supplier or large number of smaller Program Suppliers, our Program Suppliers fail to maintain the quality and volumes of content, or there are adverse changes in the terms of our revenue sharing agreements with Program Suppliers, our revenues may decline. We rely on our Program Suppliers for Units we sublease to Participating Retailers. A decrease in the number of Program Suppliers participating in our system, a decline in the financial stability of our Program Suppliers, or a decline in the quality (rental appeal) and quantity (number of theatrical titles) of content they produce, would result in a reduction in overall Units available to Participating Retailers, which could decrease our revenues. Additionally, many of our agreements with Program Suppliers may be terminated upon relatively short notice. Therefore, there is no assurance that any of the Program Suppliers will continue to distribute Units through the PPT System, continue to have titles available which we can distribute on a profitable basis, or continue to remain in business. Even if titles are otherwise available from Program Suppliers, there is no assurance that they will be made available on terms acceptable to us. A loss of any of our significant Program Suppliers or a change in any one of the above conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our Participating Retailers may lose a competitive advantage if Program Suppliers change the timing of the release of movies to the various distribution channels. Historically, after the initial release of a movie to theaters, studios would then exclusively distribute the movie to the home video retail market (typically 90 to 120 days after the theatrical release) prior to distributing it in other forms throughout the industry, such as video-on-demand. This created a competitive advantage for our Participating Retailers due to the early distribution window. Some studios have started testing the simultaneous release of their movies to the home video market and through cable, satellite and Internet video-on-demand channels on the same date. Recently, three Program Suppliers (Warner, Fox and Universal) created a 28-day retail window that delays the availability of their product in kiosks and by-mail subscription offerings. Should studios change the timing of their release windows, or eliminate the exclusive distribution window for the home video retail market, our Participating Retailers may experience reduced revenue as consumers would have simultaneous access to movies via additional distribution channels. As we share in our Participating Retailers’ revenue, this would negatively impact our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. The future success of our company is highly dependent on our ability to maintain and grow our base of clients who subscribe to our Essentials™ Suite of services. The success of our AMI Division depends on effective software solutions, marketing, sales and customer relations for our current services, as well as acceptance of future enhancements and new services by our existing and prospective clients. If we are unable to both retain existing clients and secure new clients for our Essentials services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain requisite data and other content to source our systems which provide our Essentials™ services. Our Essentials™ services rely on data collected from a wide variety of sources. Once received, the data must be reviewed, processed and, at times, converted to our required file format. If we are unable to obtain quality data feeds and process that data in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of our clients, and we could lose clients. The loss of a significant number of Essentials™ clients would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our Essentials™ lines of business, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and future prospects. Our Essentials™ services are highly dependent on employees who are skilled and experienced in information technologies. If we are unable to attract, hire and retain high quality information technology personnel at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to meet the needs of existing clients, enhance existing services, or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents The market for on demand advertising has been slow to develop and may not grow for several years. We have made significant investments in developing and are beginning to market our tracking module for advertisements in on demand programming. The success of our on demand ad tracking module is dependent on several uncertain factors, including market adoption of on demand advertising, rollout of dynamic ad insertion technologies, and the automation of files regarding the location of advertising in on demand content. If the market does not develop, we may be unable to recoup our investment. Multi-Screen Essentials™ faces various obstacles to widespread market adoption, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than us. Our Multi-Screen Essentials™ products are dependent on several factors for long-term success, including our ability to compete with larger and more seasoned competitors in this market. Our primary competitors currently are Nielsen and Kantar (formerly known as Taylor Nelson Sofres). Each of these competitors has significantly greater resources than us, which could allow them to become more formidable competitors with enhanced technology service solutions. Additionally, we face other obstacles. For instance, data providers may be reluctant or ultimately decide not to grant us adequate access to their digital transaction data, which is the key component of this product. The owners of the data may also impose greater restrictions on the use and reporting of data, which may make it difficult to realize fully the opportunities we anticipate for our products and related services. Further, the marketplace (such as advertisers, advertising agencies and television networks) may be reluctant to adopt a new standard of viewership measurement. These factors could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow this line of business, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and prospects. Measurement services are receiving a high level of consumer group and government scrutiny relating to the privacy issue around the methodologies used in targeted advertising. While we are confident that our anonymous data aggregation methodologies are compliant with all current privacy laws, it is possible that privacy trends and market perceptions of the transparency of set top box data could result in additional government restrictions or limitations on the use of that data, which would adversely affect many of our products. We believe it is unlikely that we will be required to change or limit our products. Nonetheless, if additional government restrictions are imposed, such restrictions could slow our ability to realize a return on our investments in new data-driven products or result in additional costs not currently anticipated. Our DRS business is dependent on the studios maintaining direct revenue sharing relationships with brick-and-mortar and online retailers. We currently collect, process, audit, summarize and report transactional data relating to rental and sales activity of Units at very large traditional and online retailers who have revenue sharing agreements directly with major studios. There are a number of risks that may adversely affect the size and profitability of this DRS business. First and foremost, our business is dependent on the DRS clients maintaining DRS relationships with the DRS retailers. Should the DRS clients end their DRS relationships, they would have no need for our DRS services. Second, our current DRS clients could decide to invest the resources necessary to provide DRS services internally. Third, our competitors, such as Media Salvation, or any new entrants, could improve their service offerings and successfully compete for one or more of our DRS clients. Fourth, our DRS clients could decide that the benefits of our services are not commensurate with their costs, ultimately leading to reduced DRS revenues. Lastly, if the overall size of the home entertainment rental market contracts significantly, or the large brick-and-mortar and online retailers’ share of the overall rental market declines substantially, the amount of data we process and audit on behalf of our DRS clients would also be reduced, resulting in a corresponding decrease in our DRS revenues. These and other factors could potentially reduce the demand for our services and the quantity of data we process, which would negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the markets in which we operate and those in which we are currently developing new service offerings. Some of our competitors have extensive distribution networks, long-standing relationships with our suppliers and customers, stronger brand name recognition and significantly greater financial resources than us. These factors may enable our competition to have increased bargaining and purchasing power relating to resources that could enable them to operate in a more cost effective manner and/or to surpass our technological advancements. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our lines of business. Our Home Entertainment Division is challenged by the combined effects of technological advancements, changing consumer behaviors and demand, and fundamental changes affecting the industries in which the division operates. The markets in which our Home Entertainment Division operates are highly competitive, rapidly changing and influenced greatly by consumer spending patterns and behaviors. The end consumer has a wide variety of choices in entertainment generally and video entertainment content in particular, and can easily shift from one provider to another and from one technology to another. Some examples of options available to consumers include renting product from our Participating Retailers or other retailers, ordering product directly via online subscriptions or distributors (mail delivery), renting or purchasing product from kiosk locations, subscribing to at-home movie channels, downloading or streaming content via the internet, purchasing product directly, selecting an at-home “pay-per-view” or “video-on-demand” option, or relying on cable or satellite programming exclusively. Our systems primarily rely on the end consumer choosing to rent Units from traditional “brick and mortar” retailers, a practice that is decreasing in popularity. Technological advancements, changes in distribution methods, and pricing reductions have made other options more attractive to consumers in recent years and materially diminished the demand for obtaining Units via traditional retailers. This trend is likely to continue and is expected to result in lower revenues from our Home Entertainment Division, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our services are highly dependent on the effective and efficient use of technology and our overall information management infrastructure. If we are unable to acquire, establish and maintain our information management systems to ensure accurate, reliable and timely data processed in an efficient and cost effective manner, we may not be able to meet the needs of existing clients and may not be able to enhance existing services or develop new lines of business. This could have an adverse effect on our business and long-term growth. The loss of our executive officers and key employees could have an adverse impact on our business and development initiatives. We believe that the development of our business has been, and will continue to be, dependent on certain key executives and employees of Rentrak. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon our business and development, and there can be no assurance that adequate replacements could be found in the event of their unavailability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 