Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below. 9 Risks Related to Harman Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant amount of our assets and operations are located outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the Euro. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our foreign operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we purchase certain foreign-made products. Although we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure and, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Failure to maintain relationships with our largest customers and failure by our customers to continue to purchase expected quantities of our products due to changes in market conditions would have an adverse effect on our operations. We anticipate that our automotive customers, including DaimlerChrysler, will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. However, DaimlerChrysler, or our other automotive customers are not obligated to any long-term purchases of our products. The loss of sales to DaimlerChrysler, or to any of our other significant automotive customers, would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial position. Our products may not satisfy shifting consumer demand or compete successfully with competitors’ products. Our business is based on the demand for audio and video products and our ability to introduce distinctive new products that anticipate changing consumer demands and capitalize upon emerging technologies. If we fail to introduce new products, misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for our products could decrease and our brand image could suffer. In addition, our competitors may introduce superior designs or business strategies, impairing our distinctive image and our products’ desirability. If any of these events occur, our sales could decline. A decrease in discretionary spending would likely reduce our sales. Our sales are dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which may be adversely impacted by economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales. In addition, our sales of audio, electronic and infotainment products to automotive customers are dependent on the overall success of the automobile industry, as well as the willingness of automobile purchasers to pay for the option of a premium branded automotive audio system or a multi-function digital infotainment system. 10 Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain raw materials and components from our suppliers on favorable terms. We are dependent upon third party suppliers, both in the United States and other countries, for various components, parts, raw materials and finished products. Some of our suppliers may produce products that compete with our products. We use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption in our supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a strike or work stoppage at one of our manufacturing plants or at a facility of one of our significant customers or at a common carrier or major shipping location. One of our manufacturing facilities in the United States operates under a collective bargaining agreement. This contract is scheduled to expire in March 2009. Certain of our automotive customers are unionized and may incur work stoppages or strikes. A work stoppage at our facilities or those of our automotive customers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial condition. In addition, a work stoppage at a common carrier or a major shipping location could also have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial condition. We may lose market share if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The audio and video product markets that we serve are fragmented, highly competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by intense price competition. Many manufacturers, large and small, domestic and foreign, offer audio and video systems that vary widely in price and quality and are marketed through a variety of channels, including audio and video specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail order firms, and the Internet. Some of our competitors have financial and other resources greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that may enter our markets. We also compete indirectly with automobile manufacturers that may improve the quality of original equipment audio and electronic systems, reducing demand for our aftermarket mobile audio products, or change the designs of their cars to make installation of our aftermarket products more difficult or expensive. If we do not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products, our sales may decrease. In order to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, we must maintain and improve existing products, while successfully developing and introducing new products. Our new and enhanced products must respond to technological developments and changing consumer preferences. We may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Furthermore, despite extensive testing, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in some of our products before we ship them. Delays or defects in new product introduction may result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. Even after introduction, our new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our 11 products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, our competitors’ new products and product enhancements may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of our products. Our operations could be harmed by factors including political instability, natural disasters, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our distributors and suppliers. These risks include: · changes in tariff regulations; · political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; · foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; · lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; · import and export licensing requirements; · compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the United States; and · difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. These and other risks may increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products. If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property, our business may decline. Our future success will depend, in substantial part, on our intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights, but our actions may not adequately protect the rights covered by our patents, patent applications, trademarks and other proprietary rights and prosecution of our claims could be time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights, as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, third parties may obtain, disclose or use our proprietary information without our authorization, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe their proprietary rights. These claims or similar future claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, limit our ability to use infringing intellectual property or force us to license third-party technology rather than dispute the merits of any infringement claim. Even if we prevail, any associated litigation could be time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. 12 Covenants in our existing debt agreements could restrict our operations. Our existing revolving credit facility contains certain provisions that could restrict our operating and financing activities. They restrict our ability to, among other things: · create or assume liens; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; and · engage in mergers or consolidations. Because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may have difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains other and more restrictive covenants, including financial covenants that will require us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain compliance with these covenants. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements, the related debt incurred under those agreements could be declared immediately due and payable, which could also trigger a default under other agreements. Our ability to meet the covenants or requirements in our credit facilities may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy these covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. Harman International is a holding company with no operations of its own and therefore our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to Harman International, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results and events contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report will in fact transpire. 13 Risks Related to the Merger with Parent The merger may not be completed, which could adversely affect our business. Completion of the merger is subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including adoption of the merger agreement by holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act (the FTC granted early termination of the applicable waiting period on May 18, 2007) and other non-U.S. competition laws, and other customary closing conditions described in the merger agreement. We cannot guarantee when or if these closing conditions will be satisfied, that the required approvals will be received or that the proposed merger will be successfully completed. In the event that the proposed merger is not completed, we may be subject to several risks, including the following: · our management’s and employees’ attention from day-to-day business may be diverted; · we may lose key employees; · our relationships with customers and vendors may be substantially disrupted as a result of uncertainties with regard to our business and prospects; · we would still be required to pay significant transaction costs related to the merger, including legal and accounting fees, and under certain circumstances, we may be required to reimburse Parent’s out-of-pocket transaction expenses up to $20 million and pay a termination fee of up to $225 million (less any reimbursed transaction expenses); and · the market price of shares of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the proposed merger will be completed. Uncertainties associated with the merger may have a negative impact on employee and business relationships. The announcement of the proposed merger may have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain officers and other key employees and/or maintain relationships with key customers and suppliers. These events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the proposed acquisition, we will have substantially more debt. We will have substantial indebtedness if the proposed acquisition is consummated. There can be no assurance that our businesses will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our anticipated debt service obligations. Our level of indebtedness will have important consequences, including limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow to expand our businesses or execute our strategies, to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, because we will need to dedicate a substantial portion of these cash flows to service our debt. In addition, we could be unable to refinance or obtain additional financing because of market conditions, high levels of debt and the debt restrictions expected to be included in the debt instruments executed in connection with the consummation of the proposed acquisition. This new indebtedness is expected to contain restrictive covenants, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our businesses. 14 The downgrade in our credit ratings resulting from the announcement of the proposed merger could negatively affect our ability to access capital. After the announcement of the proposed merger, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P) downgraded our corporate credit ratings. The uncertainty about the effect of the merger may further adversely affect our credit rating. Downgrades in our corporate credit ratings generally cause borrowing costs to increase, the potential pool of investors and funding sources to decrease and may have other negative consequences on our business. Most of our large customers, suppliers and counterparties require an expected level of creditworthiness in order for them to enter into transactions with us. As our corporate credit ratings decline, particularly below investment grade, counterparties may decline to do business with us. In the future, we could have liquidity needs that could be difficult to satisfy under some circumstances. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the financial markets, could impact our ability to sustain and grow our businesses, which would increase our capital costs. Our access to the financial markets could be adversely impacted by the merger, the recent downgrade in our corporate credit ratings and various other factors, such as: · changes in credit markets that reduce available credit or the ability to renew existing liquidity facilities on acceptable terms; · changes in interest rates; · a deterioration of our credit or a further reduction in our credit ratings; · a material breakdown in our risk management procedures; and · the occurrence of material adverse changes in our businesses that restrict our ability to access the credit markets. A lack of necessary capital and cash reserves could adversely impact the evaluation of our creditworthiness by counterparties and rating agencies, and would likely increase our capital costs. An increase in our capital costs could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Item 