ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. These risk factors should also be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. Our business has been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by recent adverse economic and market conditions. Our business has been adversely affected by the economic and capital markets downturns over the past two years. These downturns have been characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending and generally poor investment returns. Until the U.S. economy improves, our business will continue to be negatively impacted. In this type of economic environment, among other things, consumers may refrain from purchasing our annuity products; we may experience a higher incidence of claims and lapses or surrender of policies; and our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. Each of these occurrences, and the occurrence of other negative effects which we may not anticipate resulting from the economic downturn or from slow economic growth, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our financial condition and operating results are significantly affected by the performance of our investment portfolio, we may be adversely affected by changes in bond yields and interest rates. Our financial condition and operating results are heavily affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Most of our portfolio is invested in fixed income securities which are valued on our balance sheet at market value. The market value of fixed income securities generally moves in the opposite direction of the market yields of bonds (bond prices decline when their yields rise). Bond yields may rise or fall in response to market expectations of future interest rates and as a result of changes in the market valuation of the credit worthiness of the relevant issuers. Bond yields were volatile during 2010, which impacted our financial results. Changes in bond yields also affect the rate at which funds are reinvested and this may have an adverse effect on investment income and consequently on our results of operations. Significant increases or decreases in market interest rates can materially and adversely affect the profitability of our products, our ability to earn predictable returns, the fair value of our investments and the reported value of shareholders’ equity. A rise in interest rates generally will increase the unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio. The value of long duration bonds in our investment portfolio is also sensitive to interest rate changes. Bond yields and interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our interest rate strategy includes maintaining a diversified investment portfolio emphasizing higher-rated securities. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the returns of our investment portfolio and our results of operations. Deterioration in the public debt and equity markets would likely lead to losses in our investment portfolio, which would negatively impact our financial results. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity through conservative investment guidelines, our investments are subject to general economic conditions, market risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. Prolonged and severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including, among other things, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies, defaults, and significant ratings downgrades, may put our investments at risk. Market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial additional realized and unrealized investment losses in future periods. Separately, the occurrence of large claims may force us to liquidate securities at an inopportune time, which may cause us to realize capital losses. Large investment losses could decrease our asset base, ther eby affecting our ability to underwrite new business. Additionally, such losses would have a material adverse impact on our equity, business and financial strength. Our investment portfolio includes below investment-grade or unrated securities that have a higher degree of credit or default risk. Default losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment-grade securities. However, a small portion of the portfolio is invested in below investment-grade or unrated securities. At December 31, 2010, below investment-grade or unrated securities comprised approximately 5.2% of our investment portfolio. These securities have a higher degree of credit or default risk and are much less liquid than the rest of our portfolio. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While we have in place investment guidelines to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of prolonged economic weakness, we may experience default losses in our 21 portfolio. This may result in a reduction of net income and capital, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our investments in limited partnerships have a significant impact on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $195.5 million (5.2%) of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of interests in over 70 limited partnerships managed by various general partners, which are engaged in a variety of investment strategies, including real estate, infrastructure, debt restructurings, oil and gas and merchant banking. Historically, the returns on these limited partnership investments, although representing a small percentage of our investment assets, have had a disproportionately large impact on our results of operations. Given the significant impact of our limited partnership investments on our total revenues, the performance of our limited partnership investments has a significant impact on our results of operations. In general, risks associated with such limited partnerships include those related to their underlying investments (i.e., equity securities, debt securities and real estate), plus a level of illiquidity. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the same level of returns on our investments in limited partnerships that we achieved in the years prior to the downturn or that we will achieve any returns on such investments at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive a return of all or any portion of our current or future capital investments in limited partnerships. The failure to receive the return of a material portion of our investments in limited partnerships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from companies that have greater financial resources, a broader array of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance than us, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength. We operate in a highly competitive environment. There are numerous insurance companies, banks, securities brokerage firms and other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products, annuities, and other investments that compete with us. Management believes that our ability to compete is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to retain and attract independent General Agents to market our products and our ability to successfully develop competitive, profitable products, which includes paying competitive interest rates on our products. If our competitors are more successful than we are at offering compelling products and paying competitive rates, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Because we are a holding company with no direct operations, the inability of our principal subsidiary, the Insurance Company, to pay dividends to us in sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations. We are a holding company and we have no direct operations. Our principal asset is the capital stock of the Insurance Company. Our ability to fund overall operations, pay dividends to shareholders and pay corporate expenses depends primarily on the ability of the Insurance Company to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Under New York laws and regulations, the Insurance Company may pay dividends to us without prior approval of NYSID up to a certain threshold, or must receive prior approval of NYSID to pay a dividend if such dividends, along with all other dividends paid within the preceding 12 consecutive months exceed the statutory limitation. The current statutory limitation is the lesser of 10% of the statutory surplus, as shown on its last annual statement on file with the Commissioner or the insurer’s statutory net gain from operations for the p rior calendar year. In addition, the ability of the Insurance Company to pay dividends and advances or repayment of funds to us is restricted by laws requiring insurance companies to hold a specified amount of minimum reserves in order to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies. These regulations specify that the minimum reserves shall be calculated to be sufficient to meet future obligations, after giving consideration to future required premiums to be received, and are based on certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation, which are subject to change. In order to meet its claims-paying obligations, the Insurance Company regularly monitors its reserves to ensure that it holds sufficient amounts to cover actual or expected contract and claims payments. At times, we may determine that reserves in excess of the minimum may be needed to ensure sufficiency. Changes in these laws can constrain the ability of the Insurance Company to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us in sufficient amounts and at times necessary to meet our corporate expenses. Regulatory, accounting or tax changes may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services. Our insurance business is subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision throughout the United States by both state and federal regulators. The primary purpose of state regulation of the insurance business is to protect contract owners, and not necessarily to protect other constituencies such as creditors or shareholders. State insurance regulators, state attorneys general, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) continually reexamine existing laws and regulations and may impose changes in the future. Changes in federal legislation and administra tive policies in areas such as employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation, and federal taxation could lessen the advantages of certain of our products as compared to competing products, or possibly result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies or reduced sales of new products and, therefore, could reduce our profitability. 22 The adoption of new laws or regulations, enforcement actions or litigation, whether or not involving the Company, could influence the manner in which we distribute our insurance products, which could have an adverse effect on us. Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings may increase our future cost of capital and reduce new sales and increase policy surrenders and withdrawals. Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, of any of the ratings for the Company could have a number of adverse effects on our business, including: § materially increase the number of annuity contract surrenders and withdrawals; § result in the termination of relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers, and other distributors of the Company's products and services; and § reduce new sales of annuity contracts or increase the minimum interest rate the Company may be required to pay under new annuity contracts. Any of these consequences could adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition. If our estimated gross profits change significantly from initial expectations we may be required to expense our deferred policy acquisition costs in an accelerated manner, which would reduce our profitability. Deferred policy acquisition costs represent costs that vary with and primarily relate to the acquisition of new business. These costs are capitalized when incurred and are amortized over the life of the contracts. Current amortization of these costs is generally in proportion to expected gross profits from interest margins and, to a lesser extent, from surrender charges. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality or withdrawals may cause acceleration of the amortization of these costs resulting in an increase of expenses and lower profitability. Changes in rating agency policies or practices could result in ratings changes unrelated to the Company’s business. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon numerous factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company's control. In addition, rating organizations may employ different models and formulas to assess financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside the Company's control could impact a rating organization's judgment and the subsequent rating it assigns the Company. The Company cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions it may be required to take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which could adversely affect the Company. We rely on General Agents and agents who are independent from the Company for the distribution of our products. The independent General Agent system is our primary product distribution system. Independent General Agents and agents are not captive to the Company. Management believes that interest crediting rates, General Agent product commission levels, annuity and life product features, Company support services and perceived Company financial stability help determine our competitive nature at any given point in time and influence General Agents and their agents to distribute our products. The Insurance Company’s top ten General Agents, as measured by combined 2010 annuity and life premiums, accounted for approximately 27% of our sales in 2010. No single General Agent or agent accounted for more than 4.4% of total sales. The simultaneous loss of several distribution sources would diminish our product distribution and reduce sales and could have an adverse material i mpact on our business unless these sources are timely replaced. 23 A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, damage our reputation and cause losses. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. For example, our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. The transactions we process have become increasingly complex and often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses. P> Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, it could potentially jeopardize our or our clients’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabil ities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees; an inability to do so may impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or remediate inefficiencies. Discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We establish liabilities for amounts payable under life insurance policies, accident and health insurance policies and annuity contracts. Generally, these amounts are payable over a long period of time and the profitability of the products is dependent on the pricing. Principal assumptions used in pricing policies and in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are investment returns, mortality, expenses and persistency. The reserves reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements are based upon the Company's best estimates of mortality, persistency, expenses and investment income, with appropriate provisions for adverse statistical deviation and the use of the net level premium method for all non-interest-sensitive products. While we historically have not experienced significant adverse deviations from our assumptions, there can be no guarantee that future estimates and assumptions will not significantly dev iate from actual results. Our business may be adversely affected if the decline in annuity contracts in-force were to continue for an extended period of time: The declining trend in annuity in force primarily reflects unusually large volumes of business written in 2000 thru 2002. These contracts started to come off surrender charge at the end of 2005, through the end of 2008, at a relatively large expected surrender rate. In 2010, annuity surrenders, death claims and policy lapses outpaced new sales causing a slight decline in total annuity in force (see chart on page 34). The Company believes that surrenders and death claim activity combined with the challenging low interest rate environment for annuity sales may cause total annuities in force to fall. Our system of internal control ensures the accuracy or completeness of our disclosures and a loss of public confidence in the quality of our internal controls or disclosures could have a negative impact on us. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to provide an annual report on our internal control over financial reporting, including an assessment as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We are also required to have our auditors opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have discovered, and may in the future discover material weaknesses in our internal control that need remediation. If we determine that our remediation has been ineffective, or we identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subjected to additional regulatory scrutiny, future delays in filing our financial statements and a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could have a negative impact on our liquidity, access to capital markets and financial condition. 24 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 