ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Corporation’s business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining our actual future results. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Among factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are: § Credit market conditions, may adversely affect the business and the results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future: Since mid 2007, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. Beginning in the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels and the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense obligations. In the event our current 18 internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to sell our longer term fixed maturities into an environment that could produce significant losses. The demand for our products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower business investments. We also may experience a higher incidence of claims and lapses or surrender of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. We cannot predict definitively whether or when such actions, which could impact our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, may occur. § Investment in limited partnerships: As of December 31, 2009, approximately $196.2 million (5.4%) of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of interests in over seventy limited partnerships managed by various general partners, which are engaged in a variety of investment strategies, including real estate, international opportunities, debt restructurings, oil and gas and merchant banking. In general, risks associated with such limited partnerships include those related to their underlying investments (i.e., equity securities, debt securities and real estate), plus a level of illiquidity, which is mitigated by the ability of the Insurance Company to take quarterly distributions of partnership earnings. The matters set forth above could have a material adverse impact on these partnerships. There can be no assurance that the Insurance Company will continue to achieve the same level of returns on its investments in limited partnerships that it has received during the past periods or that it will achieve any returns on such investments at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Insurance Company will receive a return of all or any portion of its current or future capital investments in limited partnerships. The failure of the Insurance Company to receive the return of a material portion of its capital investments in limited partnerships, or to achieve historic levels of returns on such investments, could have a material adverse effect on the Insurance Company’s financial condition and results of operations. § Heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors and the development of new products by new and existing competitors: The Insurance Company operates in a highly competitive environment. There are numerous insurance companies, banks, securities brokerage firms, and other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products, annuities, and other investments that compete with the Insurance Company, many of which are more highly rated and have substantially greater resources than the Insurance Company. The Insurance Company believes that the principal competitive factors in the sale of annuity and life insurance products are product features, commission structure, perceived stability of the insurer, claims paying rating, and service. Many other insurance and financial services companies are capable of competing for sales in the Insurance Company’s target markets. Management believes that the Insurance Company’s ability to compete is dependent upon, among other things, its ability to retain and attract independent General Agents to market its products and its ability to successfully develop competitive, profitable products. Management believes that the Insurance Company has good relationships with its agents, has an adequate variety of products approved for issuance and generally is competitive within the industry in all applicable areas. § Our primary reliance, as a holding company, on sales of and interest on the Corporation’s investments and rent from its real estate to meet operating expenses and dividend payments: The Corporation is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations. The Insurance Company is subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from the Insurance Company to the Corporation. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that the Corporation needs to make payments on obligations or dividend payments. An inability of the Corporation to access funds from its subsidiaries could adversely affect its ability to meet its obligations. § Adverse results from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations: Financial services companies are frequently the targets of litigation, including class action litigation, which could result in substantial judgments. 19 § Regulatory, accounting or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services: The Company's insurance business is subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision throughout the United States by both state and federal regulators. The primary purpose of state regulation of the insurance business is to protect contract owners, and not necessarily to protect other constituencies of the Insurance Company, such as creditors or shareholders. State insurance regulators, state attorneys general, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”) continually reexamine existing laws and regulations and may impose changes in the future. Changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in areas such as employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulation, and federal taxation could lessen the advantages of certain of the Company's products as compared to competing pr oducts, or possibly result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies or reduced sales of new products and, therefore, could reduce the Company's profitability. The adoption of new laws or regulations, enforcement action or litigation, whether or not involving the Company, could influence the manner in which it distributes its insurance products, which could adversely impact the Company. Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. § Downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings: Ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, of any of the ratings for the Company could, among other things: § Materially increase the number of annuity contract surrenders and withdrawals; § Result in the termination of relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers, and other distributors of the Company's products and services; and § Reduce new sales of annuity contracts or increase the minimum interest rate the Company may be required to pay under new annuity contracts. Any of these consequences could adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition. § Changes in rating agency policies or practices: Rating organizations assign ratings based upon numerous factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company's control. In addition, rating organizations may employ different models and formulas to assess financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered the models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside the Company's control could impact a rating organization's judgment and the subsequent rating it assigns the Company. The Company cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions it may be required to take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which could adversely affect the Company. § Reliance on General Agents: The independent General Agent system is the Insurance Company’s primary product distribution system. The Insurance Company utilizes many General Agents to distribute its products and therefore, is not dependent on any one General Agent or agent for a substantial amount of its business. On the other hand, independent General Agents and agents are not captive to the Company. Management believes that interest crediting rates, General Agent product commission levels, annuity and life product features, company support services and perceived company financial stability help determine our competitive nature at any given point in time and influence General Agents and their agents to distribute our products. The Insurance Company’s top ten General Agents, as measured by combined 2009 annuity and life premiums, accounted for approximately 27% of the Insurance Company’s sales in 2009. No single Gene ral Agent accounted for more than 4.9% and no single agent accounted for more than 3.3% of total sales. 20 Management believes no single distribution source loss will have a material adverse impact on the Insurance Company. However, the simultaneous loss of several distribution sources would diminish our product distribution and reduce sales and could have an adverse material impact on the Insurance Company unless these sources are timely replaced. To guard against this contingency, the Insurance Company continuously recruits new independent General Agents. § A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, damage our reputation and cause losses: Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. For example, our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. The transactions we process have become increasingly complex and often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that support s our businesses or the community in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subjec t to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. § Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees: Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees is intense. In addition, competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals has been intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees; an inability to do so may impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or remediate inefficiencies. § Discrepancies between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing the liabilities for our obligations for future policy benefits and claims: The Insurance Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under life insurance policies, accident and health insurance policies and annuity contracts. Generally, these amounts are payable over a long period of time and the profitability of the products is dependent on the pricing. Principal assumptions used in pricing policies and in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are investment returns, mortality, expenses and persistency. The reserves reflected in the Corporation's consolidated financial statements are based upon the Corporation's best estimates of mortality, persistency, expenses and investment income, with appropriate provisions for adverse statistical deviation and the use of the net level premium method for all non-interest-sensitive products. While the Insurance Company historically has not experienced significant adverse deviations from its assumptions, there c an be no guarantee that future estimates and assumptions will not significantly deviate from actual results. § Our business may be adversely affected if the decline in annuity contracts in-force were to continue for an extended period of time: The declining trend in annuity inforce primarily reflects unusually large volumes of business written in 2000 thru 2002. These contracts started to come off surrender charge at the end of 2005, through the end of 2008, at a relatively large expected surrender rate. In 2009, annuity surrenders and death claims outpaced new sales causing a slight decline in total annuity inforce. The Company believes that surrenders and death claim activity combined with the challenging low interest rate environment for annuity sales, total annuities inforce may fall. 21 · Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of Herbert Kurz, our former Chairman: In December 2009, our former Chairman, Herbert Kurz, commenced a solicitation of stockholder consents for the purpose of, among other things, removing from office, without cause, all of the current directors (other than Mr. Kurz himself) and electing in their place a slate of nominees proposed by Mr. Kurz, who would, in turn, re-install Mr. Kurz as "interim" CEO. Mr. Kurz did not obtain the requisite stockholder consents to his proposals within the time frame prescribed by Delaware law. Nevertheless, on February 12, 2010, Mr. Kurz notified the Company of his intention to nominate, for election at the next annual shareholders' meeting, the same slate of nominees that he had proposed in his unsuccessful consent solicitation. Mr. Kurz further indicated that he may initiate a proxy contest in connection with those nominations. If Mr. Kurz or any other shareholder d oes wage a proxy contest, our business could be adversely affected because: · Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders will be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees, which may negatively impact our financial results, · Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; · If individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders, and · If Mr. Kurz is successful in electing his hand-picked slate of nominees, those nominees have indicated previously that they intend to reinstall Mr. Kurz (who will then be 90 years old) as "interim" CEO of the Company. Reinstalling Mr. Kurz as CEO could negatively impact the Company in several respects. The Company will face the risk of downgrading by rating agencies, in particular A.M. Best. A.M. Best has placed the Company under review with negative implications as a result of the management uncertainty engendered by Mr. Kurz's control campaign. A downgrade by A.M. Best could have a negative impact on the Insurance Company’s ability to sell its products. In addition, the New York State Insurance Department, which has regulatory authority over the Company's business, is investigating the Kurz Family Foundation and Mr. Kurz. If Mr. Kurz is reinstalled as CEO and regulatory action is taken against him as a result of that investigation, the Company could be adversely affected. All of these actions could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility, 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 