ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That Could Affect Our Future Results The ownership of our common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in the Company’s securities. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations Our failure to maintain our client base or renewal rates for our subscription-based services could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may not be successful in maintaining retainer and deposit account renewal rates or the size of our retainer and deposit account client base. Our ability to renew retainer and deposit accounts is subject to a number of risks, including the following: · We may be unsuccessful in delivering consistent, high quality and timely analysis and advice to our clients; · We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals in a competitive job market; · We may be unsuccessful in understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and · We may not be able to deliver products and services of the quality and timeliness to withstand competition. Our failure to consistently sell a sufficient number of new projects in our non-subscription based project businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our ability to replace completed engagements in our project businesses with new engagements is subject to a number of risks, including the following: · We may be unsuccessful in delivering consistent, high quality and timely research and consulting services to our clients; · We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals in a competitive job market; 12 · We may be unsuccessful in understanding and anticipating market trends and the changing needs of our clients; and · We may not be able to deliver research and consulting services of the quality and timeliness to withstand competition. Our inability to timely respond to rapid changes in the market or the needs of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing market trends and to adapt our products and services to meet the changing needs of our clients. Frequent and sometimes dramatic changes, including the following, characterize our industry: · Introduction of new products and obsolescence of others; and · Changing client demands concerning the marketing and delivery of our products and services. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our clients with current and timely analysis and advice on issues of importance to them. Our senior credit facility contains various covenants which limit management’s discretion in the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On March 31, 2005, we entered into a new senior secured credit facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2005 (the “Credit Agreement”), between the Company and Fleet National Bank, a Bank of America company, as lender. The Credit Agreement establishes a commitment by the lender to provide us with up to $9,000,000 in the aggregate of loans and other financial accommodations consisting of a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $4,500,000 and a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $4,500,000. On April 1, 2005, the full amount of our term facility was drawn in a single drawing and applied, among other things, to consummate the acquisition of Atlantic Research & Consulting, Inc., consummate the acquisition of Signia Partners Incorporated, and pay transaction-related costs and expenses. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2005, $2,000,000 has been drawn and remains outstanding under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Subject to permitted exceptions, our senior credit facility contains various provisions that restrict our ability to, among other things: · Incur additional indebtedness; · Pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; · Make investments; · Engage in transactions with affiliates; · Incur liens; 13 · Transfer or sell assets; and · Consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to meet certain financial covenants. Any failure to comply with the terms of our senior credit facility may result in an event of default. Substantially all of our assets are pledged to secure our indebtedness under our senior credit facility. If we default on the financial or other covenants in our senior credit facility, our lenders could foreclose on their security interest in our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments with respect to future financing. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We need to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to operate our business and support our growth. In particular, we need qualified consultants, project managers, researchers, relationship managers, sales and marketing professionals, and technology professionals. We experience competition in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business may be adversely affected if we lose any key members of management. We rely on various key management personnel in many areas of our business, and our success depends in part on our ability to motivate and retain such highly qualified management personnel. The loss of a sufficient number of management personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our pricing is subject to pressure from various market forces. The existence of significant competition in all of our business lines, as well as the emergence of various lower cost information resources such as the internet and foreign research firms, may force us to reduce our prices in order to compete and maintain our market share. Such price reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We experience significant competition in each of our business lines. Many of the companies with whom we compete are significantly larger than us, with substantially greater financial and operational resources. Such competitors may be able to provide competitive services less expensively or market them more effectively, or develop new products and services which are superior to our products and services. Our failure to compete successfully with such firms could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We must be able to manage our growth effectively. We have grown, and our plan is to continue to grow, rapidly through prudent acquisitions. Growth places significant demands on our management, administrative, operational and financial resources. Our success in managing growth will require us to continue to improve our systems and to motivate and effectively manage an evolving workforce. Failure to successfully manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 14 Future acquisitions or investments may not be successful, and may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We have made four acquisitions since April 1, 2003, and intend to make future acquisitions. There can be no guarantee that any future acquisitions will be successful due to factors such as difficulties negotiating the terms of the purchase, financing the purchase, or integrating and assimilating the employees, products and operations of the acquired business. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business and distract management. Furthermore, acquisitions may require that we expend significant sums of cash and other consideration which would then be unavailable for other business purposes, and which may require us to incur debt or issue equity. Our operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on factors which are not always in our control. Our operating results vary from quarter to quarter. We expect future operating results to fluctuate due to several factors, many of which are out of our control: · The disproportionately large portion of our subscription accounts that expire in the fourth quarter of each year, and the level and timing of the renewals of such subscription accounts; · The mix of subscription revenue versus project revenue; · The number, size and scope of the projects in which we are engaged, the degree of completion of such engagements, and our ability to complete such engagements; · The timing and amount of new business generated by us; · The timing of the development, introduction, and marketing of new products and services and modes of delivery; · The timing of hiring research and sales personnel; · The accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing project engagements; · Changes in the spending patterns of our clients; · Our accounts receivable collection experience; and · Competitive conditions in the industry. Due to these factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not necessarily be relied upon as an indication of future results of operations. 15 Recently enacted and proposed regulatory changes will increase our costs. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting publicly-traded companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), will increase our expenses to comply with the new requirements. In particular, we expect to incur significant additional administrative expense as we implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations applicable to us could also result in continued diversion of management’s time and attention, which could prove to be disruptive to business operations. Further, we may lose or may experience difficulty in attracting qualified directors and officers. There can be no assurance that we will timely complete the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Possible consequences of failure to complete such actions include sanction or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could harm our stock price and also have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. Risks Related to our Stock Our common stock has been delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market and trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may negatively impact the trading activity and price of our common stock. In April 2001, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market as a result of our failure to comply with certain quantitative requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered less liquid and efficient than NASDAQ, and although trading in our stock was relatively thin and sporadic before the delisting, the liquidity of our common stock has declined and price volatility increased because smaller quantities of shares are bought and sold, transactions may be delayed and securities analysts’ and news media coverage of us has diminished. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Reduced liquidity may reduce the value of our common stock and our ability to use our equity as consideration for an acquisition or other corporate opportunity. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our senior credit facility contains restrictive covenants that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need or would like immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. Our Common Stock is subject to rules regarding “penny stocks” which may affect its liquidity. Because the trading price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share, trading is subject to certain other rules of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a "penny stock." "Penny stock" is defined as any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Such rules require the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market before entering into any penny stock transaction. Disclosure is also required to be made about compensation payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. The rules also impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. This could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and your ability to sell such common stock. 16 The sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding warrants or conversion of our convertible preferred stock, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The sale and issuance of a substantial amount of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of outstanding warrants or conversion of our convertible preferred stock, or the perception that such sales could occur could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional preferred stock could delay or impede a change of control of our company and may adversely affect the price an acquirer is willing to pay for our common stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without further action by the shareholders, up to an additional 1,667,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting a series or the designation of such series. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of, the holders of common stock. Additionally, the conversion of preferred stock into common stock may have a dilutive effect on the holders of common stock. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past. The market price of our common stock will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: · the business environment, including the operating results and stock prices of companies in the industries we serve; · our liquidity needs and constraints; · changes in management and other personnel; · trading on the OTC Bulletin Board; · fluctuations in operating results; 17 · future announcements concerning our business or that of our competitors or customers; · the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by us or our competitors; · developments in the financial markets; · general conditions in the consulting industry; and · perceived dilution from stock issuances for acquisitions, our 2004 equity private placement financing and convertible preferred stock and other transactions. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, terrorist or other military actions, or international currency fluctuations, as well as public perception of equity values of publicly-traded companies may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 