Risk Factors In this Item 1A, the terms "we," "us," and "our" refer to The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant of these risks include those described below; however, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and, among other things, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. 23 The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic conditions. The apparel industry is highly cyclical and heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with cycles in the disposable income of consumers. Our wholesale customers may anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. Accordingly, a reduction in consumer spending in any of the regions in which we compete as a result of any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions (including as a result of the war against terrorism, the turmoil in Iraq or additional terrorist attacks) or increases in interest rates could adversely affect the sales of our products. The apparel industry is subject to constantly changing fashion trends and if we misjudge consumer preferences, the image of one or more of our brands may suffer and the demand for our products may decrease. The apparel industry is subject to shifting consumer demands and evolving fashion trends both in domestic and overseas markets and our success is dependent upon our ability to anticipate and promptly respond to these changes. Failure to anticipate, identify or promptly react to changing trends, styles or brand preferences may result in decreased demand for our products, as well as excess inventories and markdowns, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we misjudge consumer preferences, the brand image of our products may be impaired, which would adversely affect our business. The apparel industry is subject to pricing pressures that may require us to lower the prices we charge for our products. Prices in the apparel industry have been declining over the past several years, primarily as a result of the trend to move manufacturing operations offshore, the elimination of certain trade quotas, the introduction of new manufacturing technologies, growth of the mass retail channel of distribution, increased competition and consolidation in the retail industry. Products manufactured offshore generally cost less to manufacture than those made domestically, primarily because labor costs are lower offshore. We and our competitors source a significant portion of products from developing countries to achieve lower costs. Certain of our competitors may be able to source their products at lower costs than ours, and use these cost savings to reduce their prices. In addition, the elimination of certain quotas on the import of goods could result in increased competition from other countries (which may have lower labor costs) which may place additional pressure on apparel prices. Prices may also decline as a result of new manufacturing technologies (which enable manufacturers to produce goods on a more cost effective basis), increases in sales through the mass retail channel of distribution (which retailers seek to sell their products at discounted prices) or consolidation in the retail industry (which could result in larger customers with greater negotiating leverage). To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. In addition, our customers are increasingly seeking allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support. Our profitability may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices but are unable to reduce our production or other operating costs. Similarly, our margins may also suffer if our production costs increase and we are unable to increase the prices we charge for our products. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. The apparel industry is extremely competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign apparel manufacturers and distributors, some of which are larger, more diversified and have greater financial and other resources than us. This competition could cause reduced unit sales or prices, or both, which could adversely affect us. We compete on the basis of a variety of factors, including: • product quality; • brand recognition; • price; 24 • product differentiation (including product innovation); • manufacturing and distribution expertise and efficiency; • marketing and advertising; and • customer service. Our ability to remain competitive in these areas will, in large part, determine our future success. Our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our business. Increases in the prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products could materially increase our costs and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are made from cotton, wool, silk, synthetic and cotton-synthetic blends. The prices we pay for these fabrics are dependent on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton and chemical components of synthetic fabrics. These raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, energy costs, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Fluctuations in petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items such as chemicals, dyestuffs and polyester yarn. Any raw material price increase could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. In addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices or favorable sourcing agreements, we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Shortages in the supply of sourced goods, difficulties encountered by the third parties that source certain of our products or interruptions in our manufacturing or distribution operations could result in difficulty in procuring, producing and distributing our products. We seek to secure and maintain favorable relationships with the companies that source our products and to ensure the proper operation of our manufacturing facilities. We generally utilize multiple sources of supply. An unexpected interruption in the supply of our sourced or manufactured products, including as a result of a disruption in operations at any of our manufacturing or distribution facilities or at the facilities which source our products, our failure to secure or maintain favorable sourcing relationships, shortages of sourced goods or disruptions in shipping, could adversely affect our results of operations until alternate sources or facilities can be secured. Such events could result in difficulty in procuring or producing our products on a cost-effective basis or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, although we monitor the third party facilities that source certain of our products to ensure their continued human rights and labor compliance and adherence to all applicable laws and our own business partner manufacturing guidelines, we do not control these independent manufacturers. Accordingly, vendors may violate labor or other laws, or fail to adhere to our business partner manufacturing guidelines, including by engaging in business or labor practices that would generally be regarded as unethical in the U.S. In such case, our reputation may be damaged, our supply of sourced goods may be interrupted and we may terminate our relationship with such vendors, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and our financial success is linked to the success of our customers, our customers' commitment to our products and our ability to satisfy and maintain our customers. Net revenues from our ten largest customers represented approximately 50.0% and 49.9% of our worldwide net revenues during Fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. One customer, Federated Department Stores, Inc., accounted for 11.4% of our Fiscal 2005 net revenues. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Sales to customers are generally on an order-by-order basis. If we cannot fill customers' orders on time, orders may be cancelled and relationships with customers may suffer, which could have an adverse effect on us, especially if the 25 relationship is with a major customer. Furthermore, if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our programs or brands, the customer may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. The loss of a major customer or a reduction in the amount of our products purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. During the past several years, various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including consolidation of ownership, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. Consolidation of retailers or other events that eliminate our customers could result in fewer stores selling our products and could increase our reliance on a smaller group of customers. In addition, if our retailer customers experience significant problems in the future, including as a result of general weakness in the retail environment, our sales may be reduced and the risk of extending credit to these retailers may increase. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer. These or other events related to our significant customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our success depends upon the continued protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and we may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain, defend, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our registered and common law trademarks, as well as certain of our licensed trademarks, have significant value and are instrumental to our ability to market our products. Third parties may assert claims against any such intellectual property and we may not be able to successfully resolve such claims. In addition, we may be required to assert legal claims or take other enforcement actions against third parties who infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may be required to incur substantial costs in defending such claims or in taking such actions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, or the substantial costs that we may incur in doing so, may have an adverse effect on our operations. A significant portion of our operations is dependent on license agreements with third parties that allow us to design, produce, source and market our products. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 57.5% of our revenues were derived from sales of products which we design, manufacture, source and/or market pursuant to license agreements with third parties. The success of this portion of our business requires us to maintain favorable relationships with our licensors; deterioration in these relationships could impair our ability to market our brands and distribute our products. Certain of our license agreements, including the license agreements with Speedo International, Ltd., Calvin Klein, Inc., Nautica Apparel, Inc. and Anne Cole and Anne Cole Design Studio Ltd., require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants, require us to provide certain services (such as design services) and may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. The termination of certain of these license agreements could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our success depends on the reputation of our owned and licensed brand names, including, in particular, Calvin Klein. The success of our business depends on the reputation and value of our owned and licensed brand names. The value of our brands could be diminished by actions taken by licensors or others who have interests in the brands for other products and/or territories. Because we cannot control the quality of other products produced and sold under such licensed brand names, if such products are of poor quality, the value of the brand name could be damaged, which could have an adverse effect on our sales. In addition, some of the brand names licensed to us reflect the names of living individuals, 26 whose actions are outside our control. If the reputation of one of these individuals is significantly harmed, our products bearing such individual's name may fall into disfavor, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we may from time to time license our owned and licensed brand names to third parties. The actions of these licensees may diminish the reputation of the licensed brand, which could adversely affect our business. The Calvin Klein brand name is significant to our business, in particular as a result of the CKJEA Acquisition (See "Business — Acquisitions — CKJEA Acquisition"). Sales of a substantial portion of our products are in large part tied to the success of the Calvin Klein brand name. In the event that consumer demand in the U.S. or overseas for the Calvin Klein brand declines, including as a result of changing fashion trends or an adverse change in the perception of the Calvin Klein brand image, our businesses which rely on the Calvin Klein brand name, including the businesses acquired in the CKJEA Acquisition, would be significantly harmed. We are subject to local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various labor, workplace and related laws, as well as environmental laws and regulations. Our international businesses and the companies which source our products are subject to similar regulations in the countries where they operate. Our efforts to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations may require us to incur significant expenses, and our failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, local laws could have an adverse effect on our sourcing vendors, which could affect our ability to procure our products. Changing international trade regulation may increase our costs and limit the amount of products or raw materials that we may import from or export to a given country. Substantially all of our operations are subject to quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries from which we procure raw materials, such as yarn, and the countries where our manufacturing facilities or the facilities of the companies which source our products are located. Such agreements and regulations include the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean Basin Initiative, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization ("WTO"). These quotas may limit the amount of products that may be imported from a particular country, which could impair our ability to produce or procure our products on a cost-effective basis. In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or sourced, or into which they are imported, may from time to time impose additional new quotas, duties, tariffs and requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased or additional workplace regulations or other restrictions, or may adversely modify existing restrictions. Changes in international trade regulation, including future trade agreements, could provide our competitors an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business outside of the U.S. exposes us to uncertain conditions in overseas markets. Our foreign operations subject us to risks customarily associated with foreign operations. As of December 31, 2005, we sold our products throughout the world and had warehousing and distribution facilities in seven countries. In addition, in January 2006, we acquired additional operations in Europe and Asia pursuant to the CKJEA Acquisition. See "Business — Acquisitions — CKJEA Acquisition". We also source many of our products from third-party vendors based in foreign countries. For Fiscal 2005, we had net revenues outside of the U.S. of $427.5 million, representing 28.4% of our total net revenues, with the majority of these sales in Canada and Europe, and we expect that as a result of the CKJEA Acquisition, the percentage of our total revenues derived from foreign operations will increase to over 35%. We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions inherent in operating in foreign countries, including: • currency fluctuations; 27 • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in quotas, tariffs, taxes and duties; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • foreign laws and regulations; • international trade agreements; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • economic conditions overseas; • political or social unrest; and • disruptions or delays in shipments. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to U.S. and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the U.S., and change periodically. We have foreign currency exposures relating to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our functional currency. We have foreign currency exposure related to foreign denominated revenues and costs which must be translated into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. In addition, certain of our foreign operations purchase products from suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars, which exposes such operations to increases in cost of goods sold (thereby lowering profit margins) as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Our exposures are primarily concentrated in the Canadian dollar, euro, British pound sterling and Mexican peso. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market and the cost of certain items required in our operations. We are currently party to foreign currency exchange contracts, which were designed to fix the number of euros required to satisfy the first one-third of dollar denominated purchases of inventory by certain of our pre-CKJEA Acquisition European subsidiaries. See Item 7A- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Foreign Exchange Risk. Management of our foreign currency exposure may not sufficiently protect us from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, we had total debt of approximately $210.0 million. In connection with the CKJEA Acquisition (See "Business — Acquisitions — CKJEA Acquisition"), we borrowed $180.0 million under a term loan under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and assumed approximately $45 million of indebtedness of the acquired companies. As of February 17, 2006, we had total debt of approximately $435 million. Our ability to service our indebtedness using cash flows from operations is dependent on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive industry conditions and to certain other factors beyond our control, including the factors described in this Item 1A. In the event that we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations as they come due, we may be forced to refinance our indebtedness, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our debt service obligations may also limit cash flow available for our operations and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. In addition, certain of the indebtedness under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, our Foreign Credit Facility and the indebtedness we assumed in the CKJEA Acquisition is subject to floating interest rates; accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely affected if market interest rates increase. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness may also limit our operating and financial flexibility. The indenture governing our Senior Notes and the Amended and Restated Credit 28 Agreement each contain a number of significant restrictions and other covenants, including financial covenants, with which we must comply. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity — Financing Arrangements." In addition, in the event that we are unable to comply with these restrictions and other covenants and are not able to obtain waivers from our lenders, we would be in default under these agreements and, among other things, our debt may be accelerated by our lenders. In such case, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. Our success is, to a significant extent, dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees, including managerial, operational, design and sales personnel. Demand and competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we compete for personnel with companies which may have greater financial resources than we do. The unexpected loss of our current senior management or other key employees, or our inability to attract and retain such persons in the future, could harm our ability to operate our business, including our ability to effectively service our customers, generate new business or formulate and execute on our strategic initiatives. We may experience difficulties in connection with SAP's Apparel and Footwear Solution, which could increase our costs and impair the operation of our business. We are in the process of implementing SAP's Apparel and Footwear Solution (an enterprise-wide software platform encompassing finance, sales and distribution and materials management). We have implemented SAP at our Swimwear Group and certain of our corporate shared services departments, and plan to implement SAP Company-wide over the next three years. As previously disclosed, we experienced difficulties under our SAP system which negatively affected our January 2006 shipments. Although we believe that these difficulties had been addressed as of February 2006, the continuing implementation and maintenance of the SAP system could in the future result in unanticipated costs or expenditures, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, failure to smoothly and successfully implement SAP in our business operations, or difficulties that we may experience in operating our business under SAP's systems, could disrupt our operations, including our ability to timely ship and track product orders to customers, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain, and otherwise adequately service our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Businesses that we may acquire, including the businesses acquired in the CKJEA Acquisition, may fail to perform to expectations. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. On January 31, 2006, we acquired the licenses and related wholesale and retail business of Calvin Klein jeans and accessories in Europe and Asia and the CK Calvin Klein "bridge" line of sportswear and accessories in Europe. In August 2004, we acquired Ocean Pacific Apparel Corp. See "Business — Acquisitions". We may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of these or the other acquisitions that we may consummate. Newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. Acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. In addition, acquired businesses may be adversely affected by the risks described in this Item 1A, or other risks, including as a result of factors that we are not currently aware of. In addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses and products may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. The success of integrating acquired businesses is 29 dependent on our ability to, among other things, merge operational and financial systems, retain customers of acquired businesses, realize cost reduction synergies and retain key management and other personnel of the acquired companies. Integration of the recently acquired international Calvin Klein businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses, including the business acquired in the CKJEA Acquisition (which represents our most significant acquisition since our emergence from bankruptcy), or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 