Risk Factors An investment in Webster’s common stock is subject to various risks inherent in its business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Webster. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, Webster’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of Webster’s common stock could decline significantly. Webster’s Business Strategy Of Growth Through Acquisitions Could Have An Impact On Its Earnings And Results Of Operations That May Negatively Impact The Value Of The Company’s Stock In recent years, Webster has focused, in part, on growth through acquisitions. In October 2006, Webster completed the acquisition of NewMil Bancorp, Inc., the holding company for NewMil Bank, headquartered in New Milford, Connecticut, a state chartered savings bank. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, Webster engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute stockholder value. Although Webster’s business strategy emphasizes organic expansion combined with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, Webster will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon Webster’s operating results while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into Webster’s operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by Webster’s existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect Webster’s earnings. These adverse effects on Webster’s earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of Webster’s stock. The Company Operates In A Highly Competitive Industry And Market Area Webster faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. Webster also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than Webster can. The ability of Webster to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand market position. • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which Webster introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with Webster’s level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Webster’s Business Strategy Of Shifting Its Asset Mix To Reduce The Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio And Increase Commercial And Consumer Loans Involves Risks In recent years, Webster has focused on shifting its asset mix to reduce the residential mortgage loan portfolio and increase commercial and consumer loans. In 2006, Webster sold $250 million of its residential mortgage loans and utilized the proceeds to pay down high cost/short term borrowings, and securitized $370 million of residential mortgage loans and retained the resulting securities in order to strengthen its balance sheet. At the end of 2006, commercial loans were $5.3 billion, including (1) commercial and industrial loans at $3.4 billion, up 17.7% compared to balances at December 31, 2005, and (2) commercial real estate loans at $1.9 billion, up 5.3% compared to balances at December 31, 2005. Consumer loans, primarily home equity loans and lines, increased 15.7% to $3.2 billion at December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005. Commercial, commercial real estate and consumer loans comprised 65.8% of total loans at December 31, 2006 compared to 60.7% at December 31, 2005. Commercial and consumer lending typically results in greater yields than traditional residential mortgage lending; however, it also entails more credit risk. Generally speaking, the losses on commercial and consumer portfolios are 13 Table of Contents more volatile and less predictable than residential mortgage lending, and, consequently, the credit risk associated with such portfolios is higher. Webster’s Allowance For Credit Losses May Be Insufficient Webster maintains an allowance for credit losses, which is established through a provision for credit losses charged to operations, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans and unfunded credit commitments. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated credit losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of: industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires Webster to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of Webster’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review Webster’s allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, Webster will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for credit losses. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on Webster’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Credit Losses” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, located elsewhere in the Report for further discussion related to the process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. Changes In Interest Rates Could Impact Webster’s Earnings And Results Of Operations Which Could Negatively Impact The Value Of Webster’s Stock Webster’s consolidated results of operations depend, to a large extent, on the level of its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. If interest-rate fluctuations cause the cost of interest-bearing liabilities to increase faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, then net interest income for Webster will decrease. If the cost of interest-bearing liabilities declines faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, then net interest income for Webster will increase. Webster measures its interest-rate risk using simulation analyses with particular emphasis on measuring changes in net income and net economic value in different interest-rate environments. The simulation analyses incorporate assumptions about balance sheet changes, such as asset and liability growth, loan and deposit pricing and changes due to the mix and maturity of such assets and liabilities. Other key assumptions relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, prepayments of loans and the run-off of deposits. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the simulation analyses cannot precisely estimate the impact that higher or lower rate environments will have on net income. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, changes in cash flow patterns and market conditions, as well as changes in management’s strategies. While various monitors of interest-rate risk are employed, Webster is unable to predict future fluctuations in interest rates or the specific impact thereof. The market values of most of Webster’s financial assets are sensitive to fluctuations in market interest rates. Fixed-rate investments, mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans typically decline in value as interest rates rise. Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities may adversely affect the value of such securities and the interest income generated by them. Changes in interest rates can also affect the amount of loans that Webster originates, as well as the value of loans and other interest-earning assets and Webster’s ability to realize gains on the sale of such assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which Webster’s borrowers prepay their loans. When interest rates 14 Table of Contents increase, borrowers are less likely to prepay their loans, and when interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay loans. Funds generated by prepayments might be reinvested at a less favorable interest rate. Prepayments may adversely affect the value of mortgage loans, the levels of such assets that are retained in our portfolio, net interest income, loan servicing income and capitalized servicing rights. Increases in interest rates might cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, such as regular savings accounts, to accounts with a higher cost, such as certificates of deposit. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, the net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect the net interest income. Webster Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation And Supervision Webster, primarily through Webster Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect Webster’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect Webster in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject Webster to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products Webster may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on Webster’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While Webster has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this report for further information. Webster Is Subject To Insurance Industry-Related Risks The Attorneys General of the states of New York and Connecticut have been investigating insurance brokerage firms regarding certain compensation arrangements between insurance brokers and insurance companies. One of the areas of focus of these inquiries to date has been on contingency or override payments that insurance companies pay based on the overall relationship and services provided. Such payments are generally in accordance with longstanding industry practice and may be based upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, aggregate volume, profitability, and persistency of insurance policies placed with the insurance company. Recent settlement agreements entered into between insurance brokers and the Attorneys General of some states relating to contingency payments have included significant penalties and the imposition of disclosure requirements on the broker. Webster Insurance acts principally as an agent, although it has some brokerage business. Webster Insurance receives contingent payments from insurance carriers. Webster Insurance has received and responded to a request for information from the Connecticut Department of Insurance, and a subpoena from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut regarding its compensation arrangements with insurance carriers. It is the Company’s understanding that Webster Insurance’s receipt of these inquiries is part of a broad review of the insurance industry and that others in the industry have received similar inquiries. Webster Insurance has fully cooperated with the Attorney General and Department of Insurance inquiries and is not aware of any claims with respect to compensation arrangements with insurance carriers. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of these inquiries, if contingent compensation agreements were to be restricted or no longer permitted or if Webster Insurance were to be subject to monetary penalties in connection therewith, Webster’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Webster will continue to monitor industry developments in these areas, as well as compliance and disclosure practices. Webster’s Controls And Procedures May Fail Or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates Webster’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is 15 Table of Contents based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Webster’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New Lines Of Business Or New Products And Services May Subject Webster To Additional Risks From time to time, Webster may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, Webster may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of Webster’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on Webster’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Webster May Not Pay Dividends If It Is Not Able To Receive Dividends From Its Subsidiary, Webster Bank Cash dividends from Webster Bank and existing liquid assets are the principal sources of funds for paying cash dividends on Webster’s common stock. Unless the Company receives dividends from Webster Bank or chooses to use liquid assets, the Company may not be able to pay dividends. Webster Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. Webster’s main sources of liquidity are dividends from Webster Bank, investment income and net proceeds from capital offerings and borrowings. The main uses of liquidity are purchases of investment securities, the payment of dividends to common stockholders, repurchases of the Company’s common stock, and the payment of interest on borrowings and capital securities. There are certain regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by Webster Bank to Webster. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere within this Report for further information on such dividend restrictions. Webster May Not Be Able To Attract And Retain Skilled People Webster’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by Webster can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of Webster’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Webster does not currently have employment agreements with any of its executive officers. Webster’s Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or Breach In Security Webster relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While Webster has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems could damage Webster’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject Webster to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose Webster to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Webster’s financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Webster Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Webster’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of Webster’s competitors because of their larger size and available capital have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Webster may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on Webster’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. Webster Is Subject To Claims And Litigation Pertaining To Fiduciary Responsibility From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to Webster’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to Webster’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to Webster they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of Webster and its products and services, as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on Webster’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments Webster has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 