Item 1A. Risk Factors. In this Item 1A, the terms ‘‘we,’’ ‘‘us’’ and ‘‘our’’ refer to The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant of these risks include those described below; however, there may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and, among other things, the trading price of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share (‘‘Common Stock’’) could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents that we file from time to time with the SEC. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic conditions. The apparel industry is highly cyclical and heavily dependent upon the overall level of consumer spending. Purchases of apparel and related goods tend to be highly correlated with cycles in the disposable income of consumers. Our wholesale customers may anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. Accordingly, a reduction in consumer spending in any of the regions in which we compete as a result of any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions (including as a result of uncertainty in world financial markets, weakness in the credit markets, the recent housing slump in the U.S., increases in the price of fuel, international turmoil or terrorist attacks) or increases in interest rates could adversely affect the sales of our products. The apparel industry is subject to constantly changing fashion trends and if we misjudge consumer preferences, the image of one or more of our brands may suffer and the demand for our products may decrease. The apparel industry is subject to shifting consumer demands and evolving fashion trends both in domestic and overseas markets and our success is dependent upon our ability to anticipate and promptly respond to these changes. Failure to anticipate, identify or promptly react to changing trends, styles or brand preferences may result in decreased demand for our products, as well as excess inventories and markdowns, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we misjudge consumer preferences, the brand image of our products may be impaired, which would adversely affect our business. 24 Table of Contents The apparel industry is subject to pricing pressures that may require us to lower the prices we charge for our products. Prices in the apparel industry have been declining over the past several years, primarily as a result of the trend to move manufacturing operations offshore, the elimination of certain trade quotas, the introduction of new manufacturing technologies, growth of the mass retail channel of distribution, increased competition and consolidation in the retail industry. Products manufactured offshore generally cost less to manufacture than those made domestically, primarily because labor costs are lower offshore. We and our competitors source a significant portion of products from developing countries to achieve lower costs. Certain of our competitors may be able to source their products at lower costs than ours, and use these cost savings to reduce their prices. In addition, the elimination of certain quotas on the import of goods could result in increased competition from other countries (which may have lower labor costs), which may place additional pressure on appar el prices. Prices may also decline as a result of new manufacturing technologies (which enable manufacturers to produce goods on a more cost effective basis), increases in sales through the mass retail channel of distribution (which retailers seek to sell their products at discounted prices) or consolidation in the retail industry (which could result in larger customers with greater negotiating leverage). To remain competitive, we must adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. In addition, our customers are increasingly seeking allowances, incentives and other forms of economic support. Our profitability may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if we are forced to reduce our prices but are unable to reduce our production or other operating costs. Similarly, our margins may also suffer if our production costs increase and we are unable to increase the prices we charge for our products. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. The apparel industry is extremely competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign apparel manufacturers and distributors, some of which are larger, more diversified and have greater financial and other resources than us. This competition could cause reduced unit sales or prices, or both, which could adversely affect us. We compete on the basis of a variety of factors, including: • product quality; • brand recognition; • price; • product differentiation (including product innovation); • manufacturing and distribution expertise and efficiency; • marketing and advertising; and • customer service. Our ability to remain competitive in these areas will, in large part, determine our future success. Our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our business. Increases in the prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products or increases in costs to transport our products could materially increase our costs and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are made from cotton, wool, silk, synthetic and cotton-synthetic blends. The prices we pay for these fabrics are dependent on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton and chemical components of synthetic fabrics. These raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, energy costs, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Fluctuations in petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items such as chemicals, dyestuffs and polyester yarn as well as the costs we incur to transport products from our suppliers and costs we incur to distribute products to our customers. Any raw material price increase or increase in costs related to the transport of our products (primarily petroleum costs) could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customer s. In 25 Table of Contents addition, if one or more of our competitors is able to reduce its production costs by taking greater advantage of any reductions in raw material prices or favorable sourcing agreements, we may face pricing pressures from those competitors and may be forced to reduce our prices or face a decline in net sales, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Shortages in the supply of sourced goods, difficulties encountered by the third parties that source certain of our products, or interruptions in our contracted production facilities or distribution operations could result in difficulty in procuring, producing and distributing our products. We seek to secure and maintain favorable relationships with the companies that source our products and to ensure the proper operation of our contracted production facilities. We generally utilize multiple sources of supply. An unexpected interruption in the supply of our sourced products, including as a result of a disruption in operations at any of our contracted production facilities or distribution facilities or at the facilities which source our products, our failure to secure or maintain favorable sourcing relationships, shortages of sourced goods or disruptions in shipping, could adversely affect our results of operations until alternate sources or facilities can be secured. Such events could result in difficulty in procuring or producing our products on a cost-effective basis or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, although we monitor the third-party facilities that produce our products to ensure their continued human rights and labor compliance and adherence to all applicable laws and our own business partner manufacturing guidelines, we do not control these independent manufacturers. Accordingly, vendors may violate labor or other laws, or fail to adhere to our business partner manufacturing guidelines, including by engaging in business or labor practices that would generally be regarded as unethical in the U.S. In such case, our reputation may be damaged, our supply of sourced goods may be interrupted and we may terminate our relationship with such vendors, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. The failure of our suppliers or contractors to adhere to quality and production standards and the failure of our inspections to identify and correct such quality or production problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concerns about the safety of our products, including but not limited to concerns about those products manufactured in developing countries, where a significant portion of our products are manufactured, may cause us to recall selected products, either voluntarily or at the direction of a foreign or domestic governmental authority. Product safety concerns, recalls, defects or errors in production could result in the rejection of our products by customers, damage to our reputation, lost sales, product liability litigation and increased costs, any of which could harm our business. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, and our financial success is linked to the success of our customers, our customers’ commitment to our products and our ability to satisfy and/or maintain our customers. Net revenues from our ten largest customers represented approximately 32.4% and 58.7% of our worldwide net revenues during Fiscal 2007 and Fiscal 2006, respectively. No one customer accounted for 10% or more of our Fiscal 2007 or 2006 net revenues. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Sales to customers are generally on an order-by-order basis. If we cannot fill customers’ orders on time, orders may be cancelled and relationships with customers may suffer, which could have an adverse effect on us, especially if the relationship is with a major customer. Furthermore, if any of our customers experiences a significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain committed to our programs or brands, the customer may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. The loss of a major customer or a reduction in the amount of our products purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. During the past several years, various retailers, including some of our customers, have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including consolidation of ownership, restructurings, 26 Table of Contents bankruptcies and liquidations. Consolidation of retailers or other events that eliminate our customers could result in fewer stores selling our products and could increase our reliance on a smaller group of customers. In addition, if our retailer customers experience significant problems in the future, including as a result of general weakness in the retail environment, our sales may be reduced and the risk of extending credit to these retailers may increase. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that customer. These or other events related to our significant customers could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our success depends upon the continued protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights and we may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain, defend, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our registered and common law trademarks, as well as certain of our licensed trademarks, have significant value and are instrumental to our ability to market our products. Third parties may assert claims against any such intellectual property and we may not be able to successfully resolve such claims. In addition, we may be required to assert legal claims or take other enforcement actions against third parties who infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may be required to incur substantial costs in defending such claims or in taking such actions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, or the substantial costs that we may incur in doing so, may have an adverse effect on our operations. A significant portion of our operations is dependent on license agreements with third parties that allow us to design, produce, source and market our products. As of December 29, 2007, approximately 67.2% of our revenues were derived from sales of products which we design, source and/or market pursuant to license agreements with third parties. The success of this portion of our business requires us to maintain favorable relationships with our licensors; deterioration in these relationships could impair our ability to market our brands and distribute our products. Certain of our license agreements, including the license agreements with Speedo International, Ltd., CKI and Polo Ralph Lauren, Inc require us to make minimum royalty payments, subject us to restrictive covenants, require us to provide certain services (such as design services) and may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. We may not be able to continue to meet our obligations or fulfill the conditions under these agreements in the future. The termination of certain of these license agreements could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our success depends on the reputation of our owned and licensed brand names, including, in particular, Calvin Klein. The success of our business depends on the reputation and value of our owned and licensed brand names. The value of our brands could be diminished by actions taken by licensors or others who have interests in the brands for other products and/or territories. Because we cannot control the quality of other products produced and sold under such licensed brand names, if such products are of poor quality, the value of the brand name could be damaged, which could have an adverse effect on our sales. In addition, some of the brand names licensed to us reflect the names of living individuals, whose actions are outside our control. If the reputation of one of these individuals is significantly harmed, our products bearing such individual’s name may fall into disfavor, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we may from time to time license our owned and licensed brand names to third parties. The actions of these licensees may diminish the reputation of the licensed brand, which could adversely affect our business. The Calvin Klein brand name is significant to our business. Sales of a substantial portion of our products are in large part tied to the success of the Calvin Klein brand name. In the event that 27 Table of Contents consumer demand in the U.S. or overseas for the Calvin Klein brand declines, including as a result of changing fashion trends or an adverse change in the perception of the Calvin Klein brand image, our businesses which rely on the Calvin Klein brand name, including the businesses acquired in the CKJEA Acquisition, would be significantly harmed. We are subject to local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the Department of Homeland Security and various labor, workplace and related laws, as well as environmental laws and regulations. Our international businesses and the companies which source our products are subject to similar regulations in the countries where they operate. Our efforts to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations may require us to incur significant expenses, and our failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, local laws could have an adverse effect on our sourcing vendors, which could affect our ab ility to procure our products. Changing international trade regulation may increase our costs and limit the amount of products or raw materials that we may import from or export to a given country. Substantially all of our operations are subject to bilateral textile agreements between the countries from which we procure raw materials, such as yarn and fabric, and the countries where the facilities of the companies which source our products are located. Such agreements and regulations include free trade agreements and other preference agreements with various countries and the activities and regulations of the WTO. Our non-compliance with, or changes associated with, such agreements and regulations may limit the amount of products that may be imported from a particular country, which could impair our ability to source our products on a cost-effective basis. In addition, the countries in which our products are sourced or into which they are imported, may from time to time impose new quotas, duties, tariffs and requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased or additional workplace regulations or other restrictions, or may adversely modify existing restrictions. Changes in international trade regulation, including future trade agreements, could provide our competitors an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business outside of the U.S. exposes us to uncertain conditions in overseas markets. Our foreign operations subject us to risks customarily associated with foreign operations. As of December 29, 2007, we sold our products throughout the world and had warehousing and distribution facilities in nine countries. In addition, in January 2006, we acquired additional operations in Europe and Asia pursuant to the CKJEA Acquisition. See Item 1. Business—Acquisitions, Dispositions and Discontinued Operations—CKJEA Acquisition. We also source our products from third-party vendors, substantially all of which are based in foreign countries. For Fiscal 2007, we had net revenues outside of the U.S. of $898.4 million, representing 48.3% of our total net revenues, with the majority of these sales in Europe and Asia. We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economi c conditions inherent in operating in foreign countries, including: • currency fluctuations; • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in quotas, tariffs, taxes and duties; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • foreign laws and regulations; • international trade agreements; 28 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • economic conditions overseas; • political or social unrest; and • disruptions or delays in shipments. In addition, transactions between our foreign subsidiaries and us may be subject to U.S. and foreign withholding taxes. Applicable tax rates in foreign jurisdictions differ from those of the U.S., and change periodically. We have foreign currency exposures relating to buying, selling and financing in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our functional currency. We have foreign currency exposure related to foreign denominated revenues and costs which must be translated into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (particularly any strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, Canadian dollar, British pound or Mexican peso) may adversely affect our reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. In addition, certain of our foreign operations purchase products from suppliers denominated in U.S. dollars, which exposes such operations to increases in cost of goods sold (thereby lowering profit margins) as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. Our exposures are primarily concentrated in the euro, Canadian dollar, British pound and Mexican peso. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market and the cost of certain items required in our operations. Management of our foreign currency exposure may not sufficiently protect us from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to certain risks as a result of our indebtedness. As of December 29, 2007, we had total debt of approximately $366.6 million. In connection with the CKJEA Acquisition (see Item 1. Business—Acquisitions, Dispositions and Discontinued Operations —CKJEA Acquisition), we borrowed $180.0 million under a term loan under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and assumed approximately $45.0 million of indebtedness of the acquired companies. Our ability to service our indebtedness using cash flows from operations is dependent on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive industry conditions and to certain other factors beyond our contro l, including the factors described in this Item 1A. In the event that we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations as they come due, we may be forced to refinance our indebtedness, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our debt service obligations may also limit cash flow available for our operations and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary. In addition, certain of the indebtedness under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, our Foreign Credit Facility and the indebtedness we assumed in the CKJEA Acquisition is subject to floating interest rates; accordingly, our results of operations may be adversely affected if market interest rates increase. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness may also limit our operating and financial flexibility. The indenture governing the Company’s 87/8% Senior Notes due 2013 (‘‘Senior Notes’’) and the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement each contain a number of significant restrictions and other covenants, including financial covenants, with which we must comply. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity—Financing Arrangements. In addition, in the event that we are unable to comply with these restrictions and other covenants and are not able to obtain waivers from our lenders, we would be in default under these agreements and, among other things, our debt may be accelerated by our lenders. In such case, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Our business depends on our senior management team and other key personnel. Our success is, to a significant extent, dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate senior management and other key employees, including managerial, operational, design and sales personnel. Demand and competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we compete for personnel with companies which may have greater financial resources than we do. The unexpected loss of our current senior management or other key employees, or our inability to attract and retain such persons in the future, could harm our ability to operate our business, including our ability to effectively service our customers, generate new business or formulate and execute on our strategic initiatives. We rely significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on our information technology systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a breach in security of any of our systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. Any such failure, problem, difficulty or breach could also require significant expenditures to remediate. Fluctuations in the valuation of our pension plan’s investments can have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain, among other plans, a defined benefit pension plan for our U.S. employees, which provides for specified payments after retirement. Under our direction, our U.S. pension plan invests in a variety of assets including marketable equity and debt securities, mutual funds and pooled investment accounts and limited partnerships. The value of these pension plan investments may fluctuate due to, among other things, changing economic conditions, interest rates and investment returns, and we cannot predict with certainty the value that any individual asset or investment will have in the future. Decreases in the value of U.S. pension plan investments can have a significant effect on our results of operations in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year because they increase our pension expense and our unfunded pension liability. Moreover, as a result of such decreases, we may be required to make larger cash contributions to the U.S. pension plan in the future, whic h could limit us from making investments in our business, reduce cash available to fund operations or service our indebtedness, or otherwise be detrimental to our results of operations and financial condition. Businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses with our existing business. From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support and strengthen our business. We may not be able to realize all or a substantial portion of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions that we may consummate. Newly acquired businesses may not achieve expected results of operations, including expected levels of revenues, and may require unanticipated costs and expenditures. Acquired businesses may also subject us to liabilities that we were unable to discover in the course of our due diligence, and our rights to indemnification from the sellers of such businesses, even if obtained, may not be sufficient to offset the relevant liabilities. In addition, acquired businesses may be adversely affected by the risks described in this Item 1A, or other risks, including as a result of factors that we are not currently aware of. In addition, the integration of newly acquired businesses and products may be expensive and time-consuming and may not be entirely successful. The success of integrating acquired businesses is dependent on our ability to, among other things, merge operational and financial systems, retain customers of acquired businesses, realize cost reduction synergies and retain key management and other personnel of the acquired companies. Integration of the acquired businesses may also place additional pressures on our systems of internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or if acquired businesses fail to produce targeted results, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 30 Table of Contents We have a history of restated financial statements and insufficient disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, the recurrence of which could impair our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information in the future and have a negative effect on our business and stock price. In Fiscal 2005, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, as a result of such material weaknesses, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective. We were also required to restate our Fiscal 2005 and quarter ended April 1, 2006 financial statements (including restatements required in connection with the identified material weaknesses). Although we have, in each case, taken actions that we believe have effectively remediated the material weaknesses identified, and our management has concluded that our internal control was effective as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, there can be no assurance that in the future we will not suffer from ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, which would impair our ability to provide reliable and timely financial reports. M oreover, because of the inherent limitations of any control system, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, or at all. If we are unable to provide reliable and timely financial reports, or if we are required to restate our financial statements, our business may be harmed, including as a result of adverse publicity, litigation, SEC proceedings, exchange delisting or consequences under (or the need for waivers of) our debt covenants. Failures in internal control and restated financial statements may also cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting process, which could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 