ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Recent SEC rulemaking, referred to as Securities Offering Reform amended Form 10-K to require issuers to disclose risk factors applicable to their companies. These new disclosures are required for all Form 10-K’s filed for fiscal years ending on or after December 1, 2005. This is the first year that the new rules are applicable to the Company. The Company’s fiscal year ended on September 30, 2006. The Company’s risk factors disclosures are provided below in compliance with the new rules. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended. Such forward looking statements are based on current information and expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. The Company’s business is promotional in nature, and ADVO serves its clients on a “just in time” basis. As a result, fluctuations in the amount, timing, pages and weight and kinds of advertising pieces can vary significantly from period to period, depending on its customers’ promotional needs, inventories and general economic factors. In any particular period these transactional fluctuations are difficult to predict and can materially affect the Company’s revenue and profit results, particularly given the Company’s large fixed postage expense. Our business environment and economic conditions, and other specific risks may affect our future business decisions and financial performance. The matters discussed below may cause our future results to differ from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Proposed Valassis Merger and Litigation We are currently involved in litigation with Valassis Communications, Inc., the existence and outcome of which may adversely affect ADVO and its ability to retain customers or generate revenues and profits. ADVO entered into a Merger Agreement, dated as of July 5, 2006, with Valassis Communications, Inc. (“Valassis”) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Michigan Acquisition Corporation (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which Valassis agreed to acquire ADVO in a merger at a price of $37.00 per share in cash. On August 30, 2006, Valassis filed a complaint against us in the Delaware Chancery Court seeking to rescind the Merger Agreement. On September 8, 2006, the Company filed an answer and counterclaims in response to the complaint filed by Valassis. Irrespective of the validity of the assertions made in these suits or positions asserted in these proceedings or any final resolution in these matters, we will incur substantial costs and our employees’ attention could be diverted, both of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The outcome of the litigation is unknown. Trial is scheduled to commence December 11, 2006. See risks associated with the failure to complete the proposed Merger Agreement below. If the merger with Valassis is not consummated, we may face significant internal hurdles and external market pressure which may adversely affect our financial condition. If the proposed merger with Valassis is not completed, we could suffer a number of consequences that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price, including, without limitation, any one or all of the following: • the market price of our common stock could decline following a court determination that the Merger Agreement may be rescinded by Valassis; • we would be subject to class action lawsuits and additional litigation; • we could be required to pay Valassis its expenses of up to $10.0 million under certain circumstances described in the Merger Agreement; • we would remain liable for our costs related to the acquisition, such as legal and accounting fees and a portion of our investment banking fees; or • we may not be able to retain key employees. 6 Table of Contents We are currently faced with a number of class action lawsuits and a derivative lawsuit related to the Valassis transaction, the litigation and outcome of which may be detrimental to our financial condition. In September 2006, several class action lawsuits were filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by certain stockholders seeking to certify a class of all persons who purchased ADVO stock between July 6, 2006 and August 30, 2006. These complaints generally allege we violated federal securities law by issuing a series of materially false and misleading statements concerning our business and financial results in connection with the proposed merger with Valassis and, as a result, investors allegedly believed the acquisition would occur causing the Company’s stock price to trade at artificially inflated prices. No class has been certified to date on any of these suits. The Company, its directors and certain of its officers, have also been sued in a derivative action filed in September 2006, raising essentially the same factual allegations as the securities class actions. The findings and outcome of the Valassis litigation may affect the pending class action lawsuits and derivative action. We are generally obligated, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our directors and officers who are named defendants in some of these lawsuits. We could incur significant legal expenses and management’s time and attention would be distracted from the day-to-day operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Challenges in hiring and retaining qualified personnel due to the pending Valassis merger and litigation. We depend on our employees and on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. The uncertainties surrounding the pending merger and litigation could divert management and employees’ attention from their day-to-day business, cause disruptions among relationships with customers and business partners and cause employees to seek alternative employment, all of which could jeopardize our ability to manage our business. In addition, the loss of any key employees, the inability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are successful in enforcing the terms of the Merger, integration efforts may lead to inefficiencies negatively affecting our sales efforts, revenues and profits. If we are successful in enforcing the terms of the Merger Agreement, substantial resources will be dedicated to the integration of the two companies. Efforts to realize projected synergies will be undertaken. Such efforts could divert management and employees’ attention from their day-to-day business, cause disruptions among relationships with customers and business partners and cause employees to seek alternative employment, all of which could distract from our ability to manage our business and could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Business Operations We face intense competition which could limit our ability to grow our profitability. The advertising industry is rapidly evolving and subject to periodic technological advancements, high turnover of client personnel who make buying decisions, and changing client needs and preferences. Our direct mail media business faces intense competition based primarily on the ability to target selected potential customers on a cost-effective basis and provide a satisfactory return on advertising investment. Although newspaper subscribers and non-subscriber advertising programs represent our most significant and direct competition, our products compete for advertising dollars against other forms of print and electronic media and other advertising in general. Our principal direct marketing competitors are other companies with residential lists and similar cooperative mailing advertising programs. These companies have a significant presence in many of our markets and represent competition to our ShopWise® shared mail program. Competition for market share advertising also comes from magazines, radio, broadcast and cable television, shoppers, the internet, other communications media and other advertising printers that operate in our markets. The extent and nature of such competition are, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets targeted by a particular advertiser and the 7 Table of Contents number of media alternatives in those markets. Our clients and prospective clients are operating with lower advertising budgets, while trying to allocate their spending across a growing number of media channels. They are increasingly faced with the challenge of doing more with less. Our failure to improve our current processes or to develop new products and services could result in the loss of our clients to current or future competitors. In addition, failure to gain market acceptance of new products and services could adversely affect our growth. The possibility of consolidation in our customer base, or loss of a customer, customers choosing alternative advertising methods or customers decreasing the frequency or amount of their mailings could impact our revenue growth and profit. In recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, the number of retailers to which we sell our products and services may decline and lead to a decrease in revenues. In addition, we may lose a customer that is acquired by a company who is not interested in using our products and services or who eliminates retail locations (including the sale of Albertson’s to several companies). Also, a customer may decide to decrease their mailing frequency or modify the amount, pages and weight, and kind of advertising pieces to purchase. Our customers may be impacted by the items detailed above and by other general economic and business conditions that would affect their demand for our products and services and in turn choose other alternative advertising methods, or impact the pricing of our products and services. If we are unable to stabilize and achieve efficiencies with SDR, our newly implemented enterprise-wide order-to-cash system, and improve the availability of data for management decision making our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we launched SDR, an enterprise-wide order-to-cash information technology system. This new system replaced several older legacy systems, consolidating processes into one system with upgraded software applications and new technology and work processes. SDR is designed to streamline information flow and integrate business processes throughout the organization. We encountered transitional issues during the SDR implementation, including problems with entering and processing customer orders, temporary inefficiencies in production, shipping disruptions and delayed customer invoicing. While we have identified and corrected many of the initial transitional issues associated with the implementation of SDR, we may experience unforeseen transitional issues in the future. The resulting disruption could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We believe we are adequately managing the transition to the new processes. If needed, we will continue to devote additional resources to work on the normalization of SDR. This would include continued user training, implementation of compensating controls and system enhancements. Such reallocation of resources could divert our resources away from sales, development or other business activities. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls may affect our ability to publish timely and accurate financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies design and maintain an adequate system of internal controls over financial reporting and assess and report on such internal control structure annually. Such a system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any internal control system is based in part upon certain assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. If any material weaknesses are identified in the future that we are unable to successfully address, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Continued Zone Product weakness may negatively impact our financial performance. Our zone products (collectively the ShopWise® wrap and Missing Child Card products) have a significant effect on our profitability and our overall financial performance. During fiscal 2006, we experienced zone product weakness and high client cancellations particularly in the telecommunications/satellite advertising category that resulted in a year-over-year decrease in zone products revenues. We formed a cross-functional zone products team that developed strategies focused on driving zone products revenue growth by increasing sales focus and reducing cancellations for calendar 2007. Also the zone product booking phase was split into two six-month periods rather than the historical process that began eighteen months prior to the client’s advertising date. In addition, among other things, the telecommunications/satellite advertising category has been placed later in the booking process. The zone products team is focused on selling zone products to more clients and in more categories. Our execution of this strategy may take longer to implement than anticipated or may be unsuccessful. Such failures would lead to a continued weakness in revenue and profit negatively impacting our financial performance. We may not achieve planned efficiencies through strategic initiatives leading to higher costs than planned. We expect financial performance in fiscal 2007 to benefit from savings resulting from certain strategic initiatives implemented in the second half of fiscal 2006, including: the Southern California joint distribution agreements; graphics print outsourcing and the Memphis facility consolidation. The ability to achieve the anticipated benefits from these strategic initiatives, may take longer than anticipated, may result in unanticipated additional costs or may be unsuccessful. If we fail to efficiently and effectively convert to on-piece labeling, revenues and profitability may be lower than expected. We plan to eliminate the detached address label and begin a process of “in-line, on-piece” addressing of the ShopWise® shared mail advertising package. This change is necessary to avoid steep increases in postage expense. Although we have begun modifying operations and intend to have these changes in place by May 2007 in conjunction with the expected USPS’ introduction of a new postal rate structure, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. Additionally the timing and rates expected in the new postal rate structure are not certain. Our failure to manage the process for modifying our operations or implementing these changes as scheduled could cause us to incur increased postage expense, which could in turn adversely affect the Company’s business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third parties for delivery of our product and on third party information technology systems and services. If such third parties do not fulfill their obligations, we may lose clients and experience reduced revenue and profitability. Our products are primarily delivered through the USPS. Postage expense is our largest expense. The inability of the USPS to deliver our products on a timely basis could disrupt our business and in turn adversely affect our business, sales, results of operation and financial condition. Furthermore, an increase in the cost of postage combined with our inability to successfully pass through such postage rate increase directly to our customers could negatively affect our earnings. We also depend on third party information technology systems and services for our operations most of which are provided by a single third party. Such third party’s performance is outside of our control. This particular third party provides computer processing, systems development and other various systems support to the Company. Our regional production sites, sales offices and corporate headquarters are on-line with this computer center, enabling the day-to-day processing functions to be performed and providing ADVO’s corporate headquarters with management information. The systems include: order processing and production control, transportation /distribution, address list maintenance, market analysis, label printing and distribution, billing and financial systems, human resources and payroll processing, carrier routing of addresses received from customer 9 Table of Contents files and demographic analyses as well as other systems. We also have agreements with said third party to provide a customer support center (help desk) and client server (server farm) management services. Any failures or interruptions in the availability of these systems or services could disrupt our business and adversely affect the Company’s sales, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience fluctuations in material costs and other expenses which may negatively impact our financial condition. We are dependent upon the availability of paper to print our customers’ advertising circulars. We currently have cancelable agreements with various paper suppliers attempting to assure the continuity of supply and the supply of proper paper grades. Although we have negotiated prices that are tied to a published paper price index, we cannot control the supply or the cost of paper. Disruptions or shortages in the availability of paper could adversely affect the Company’s business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Portions of our business are dependent upon our relationships with A.N.N.E. complementors and distribution agreements with various newspapers. If these relationships deteriorate, our financial condition may be adversely affected. The Company’s A.N.N.E. distribution network provides clients with extended coverage outside markets already served by the Company. Our distribution agreements with newspapers offer clients a competitive targeted advertising solution. Most of our newspaper relationships are non-exclusive and our partners are not prohibited from forming other or preferred arrangements with our competitors. Deterioration of relationships with our A.N.N.E. complementors and loss of or limitation on our newspaper distribution agreements could adversely affect the way our product is distributed, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we self-insure a number of our benefit plans, unexpected changes in claim trends may negatively impact our financial condition. We self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation program and medical benefits claims. Unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates, and medical cost inflation could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported. If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, the Company’s self-insurance costs could increase significantly. Certain of our credit facilities expire in December 2007. We may not be able to secure acceptable debt financing to meet our capital needs. Declines in profitability could impact our ability to maintain compliance under our debt covenants. Based on our current level of operations, we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with amounts we expect to be able to borrow under the revolving line of credit, will be adequate to meet our anticipated operating and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. But, our revolving line of credit matures in December 2007. There is no assurance we will be able to refinance on acceptable terms or refinance at all when the Company’s revolving line of credit matures. Additionally, declines in profitability could impact our ability to maintain compliance under our debt covenants. Therefore, our future growth and profitability could be adversely affected. We operate in a complex, continually changing environment. We may experience unknown risks and challenges that may adversely affect our financial condition. We operate our business in a complex, continually changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. We are not able to reasonably identify or itemize all of the factors that could affect our business, our markets, our products or our services. Future events that may not have been anticipated or discussed here could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Thus, the above is not a complete description of all risks relevant to our future performance and the above risks should be read and understood together with and in the context of similar discussions which may be contained in the documents that we file with the SEC in the future. We undertake no obligation to update the above listed risks or any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 