ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s three business segments described above are all subject to a number of risk factors, the occurrence of any one or more of which could have a significant adverse impact on the business, financial condition, or results of operations of the Company as a whole. 6 Housewares/Small Appliance Segment: Increases in the costs for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies could adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations. The Company’s suppliers purchase significant amounts of metals, plastics, and energy to manufacture its products. Also, the cost of fuel has a major impact on transportation costs. Any increased costs that cannot be fully absorbed or passed along in the form of price increases to the retail customer can have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results. Reliance on third-party suppliers in Asia makes this segment vulnerable to supply interruptions and foreign business risks. The majority of the housewares/small appliance products are manufactured by a handful of third-party suppliers in Asia, primarily in the People’s Republic of China. The Company’s ability to continue to select and develop relationships with reliable vendors who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products will impact its success in meeting customer demand. Most products are procured on a “purchase order” basis. As a result, it may be subject to unexpected changes in pricing or supply of products. There is no assurance that it could quickly or effectively replace any of its vendors if the need arose. Any significant failure to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply may disrupt customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, international manufacturing is subject to significant risks, including, among others, labor unrest, adverse social, political and economic conditions, interruptions in international shipments, tariffs and other trade barriers, legal and regulatory constraints and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although China currently enjoys “most favored nation” trading status with the United States, the U.S. government has in the past proposed to revoke that status and to impose higher tariffs on products imported from China, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Housewares/Small Appliance segment is dependent on key customers, and any significant decline in business from one or more of its key customers could adversely affect the segment’s operating results. Although the Company has a long-established relationship with its major customers, it does not have any long-term supply agreement or guaranty of minimum purchases. As a result, the customers may fail to place planned orders, change planned quantities, delay purchases, or change product assortments for reasons beyond its control, which could prove detrimental to the segment’s operating results. The sales for this segment are highly seasonal and dependent upon the United States retail markets and consumer spending. Traditionally, this segment has recognized a substantial portion of its sales during the Holiday selling season. Any downturn in the general economy or a shift in consumer spending away from its housewares/small appliances could adversely affect sales and operating results. The Company may not be successful in developing and introducing new and improved consumer products. The development and introduction of new housewares/small appliance products is very important to the Company’s long-term success. The ability to develop new products is affected by, among other things, whether the Company can develop and fund technological innovations and successfully anticipate consumer needs and preferences, as well as the intellectual property rights of others. The introduction of new products may require substantial expenditures for advertising and marketing to gain marketplace recognition or to license intellectual property. There is no guarantee that it will be aware of all relevant intellectual property in the industry and may be subject to claims of infringement, which could preclude it from producing and selling a product. Likewise, there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in developing products necessary to compete effectively in the industry or that it will be successful in advertising, marketing and selling any new products. 7 Product recalls or lawsuits relating to defective products could have an adverse effect on the Company. As distributors of consumer products in the United States, the Company is subject to the Consumer Products Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission could require the Company to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of its products, or it may voluntarily do so. Any repurchase or recall of products could be costly and damage the Company’s reputation, as well as subject it to a sizable penalty that the Commission is empowered to impose. If the Company removed products from the market, its reputation or brands could be tarnished and it might have large quantities of finished products that could not be sold. The Company could also face exposure to product liability claims if one of its products were alleged to have caused property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. It is self-insured to specified levels of those claims and maintains product liability insurance for claims above the self-insured levels. The Company may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. In addition, product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Moreover, many states do not allow insurance companies to provide coverage of punitive damages, in the event such damages are imposed. Additionally, the Company does not maintain product recall insurance. As a result, product recalls or product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The housewares/small appliance industry continues to consolidate, which could ultimately impede the Company’s ability to secure product placement at key customers. Over the past decade, the housewares/small appliance industry has undergone significant consolidation, and, as a result, the industry primarily consists of a limited number of larger companies. Larger companies do enjoy a competitive advantage in terms of the ability to offer a larger assortment of product to any one customer. As a result, the Company may find it more difficult or lose the ability to place its products with its customers. Defense Segment: The Company relies primarily on sales to U.S. Government entities, and the loss of a significant contract or contracts could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. As the Company’s sales in the Defense segment are primarily to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors, it depends heavily on the contracts underlying these programs. The loss or significant reduction of a major program in which the Company participates could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. In April 2005, AMTEC Corporation was selected as one of two prime contractors responsible for supplying all requirements for 40mm practice and tactical ammunition rounds for the Army’s five year 40mm systems program. AMTEC projects that its deliveries to the Army over the life of the contract will exceed $667,000,000. In February 2010 the Army awarded AMTEC a new contract for an additional five-year period. As in the original contract, AMTEC and one other prime contractor will be responsible for supplying all of the requirements for the 40mm family of ammunition rounds. The actual annual and cumulative dollar volume with the Army will be dependent on military requirements and funding. Total deliveries under the systems program for the two 40mm contracts were $92,000,000 during 2011. A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in the Defense segment sales and earnings. Government contracts are primarily dependent upon the U.S. defense budget. During recent years, the Company’s sales have been augmented by increased defense spending, including supplemental appropriations for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. However, future defense budgets could be negatively affected by several factors, including U.S. Government budget deficits, administration priorities, U.S. national security strategies, a change in spending priorities, and the reduction of military operations in Afghanistan and other parts of the world. Any significant decline or redirection of U.S. military expenditures could result in a decrease to the Company’s sales and earnings. 8 U.S. Government contracts are also dependent on the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually incrementally funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations for future fiscal years. In addition, most U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification if funding is changed. Any failure by Congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which the Company participates, or any contract modification as a result of funding changes, could materially delay or terminate the program. This could have a material adverse effect on the results of the Company’s operations. The Company may not be able to react to increases in its costs due to the nature of its U.S. government contracts. Substantially all of the Company’s U.S. government contracts are being performed on fixed-price basis. Under fixed-price contracts, the Company agrees to perform the work for a fixed price, subject to limited escalation provisions on specified raw materials. Thus it bears the risk that any increases or unexpected costs may reduce profits or potentially cause losses on the contract, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. That risk is potentially compounded by the political actions under consideration by federal and state governments, including climate change and labor regulations, which could have an impact if enacted or promulgated on the availability of affordable labor, energy and ultimately, materials, as the effects of the legislation/regulation ripple throughout the economy. In addition, products are accepted by test firing samples from a production lot. Lots typically constitute a sizable amount of product. Should a sample not fire as required by the specifications, the cost to rework or scrap the entire lot could be substantial. The Company’s U.S. government contracts are subject to terminations. All of the Company’s U.S. government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if the Company defaults by failing to perform under the contract. Performance failure can occur from a myriad of factors, which include late shipments due to the inability to secure requisite raw materials or components or strikes or other labor unrest, equipment failures or quality issues which result in products that do not meet specifications, etc. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for recovery of costs incurred and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. If a termination provision is exercised, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure of the Company’s subcontractors to perform their contractual obligations could materially and adversely impact contract performance. Key components and services are provided by third party subcontractors, several of which the segment is required to work with by government edict. Under the contract, the segment is responsible for the performance of those subcontractors, many of which it does not control. There is a risk that the Company may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by subcontractors. A failure by one or more of the Company’s subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact the Company’s ability to perform its obligations as the prime contractor. Absorbent Products Segment: The Absorbent Products segment is dependent on key customers, and any significant decline in business from one or more of its key customers could adversely affect the segment’s operating results. One customer, Medline Industries Holdings LP, has accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales in each of the last three fiscal years. During the last several years, the Absorbent Products segment has been implementing a customer diversification program to reduce its reliance on this customer. In September of 2011, the Company entered a one-year private label manufacturing agreement with Medline. The agreement provided a framework for an ongoing relationship between the parties and ends in September 2012. In fourth quarter 2011, Medline began operating its own absorbent products facility. As a result, purchases for 2012 are expected to decline significantly. The loss of this customer, in particular if in conjunction with the loss of other key customers, could have a material adverse effect on the segment’s results of operations and financial condition. 9 Increases in costs for raw materials, transportation, energy and other supplies could adversely affect the results of its operations. At times, the Company has experienced significant increases in its raw material, transportation, energy, and other supply costs primarily due to limited global supply and increased demand. Any increased costs that cannot be fully absorbed or passed along in the form of price increases to its customers could adversely affect earnings. Global economic conditions, supplier capacity constraints and other factors could affect the availability of, or prices for, those raw materials. The risk is further compounded by the political actions under consideration by federal and state governments, including climate change and labor regulations, which could have an impact if enacted or promulgated on the availability of affordable labor, energy, and ultimately, materials, as the effects of the legislation ripple throughout the economy. The Company may not be successful in developing and introducing new and improved absorbent products. The development and introduction of new absorbent products is very important to long-term success. The ability to develop new products is affected by, among other things, whether the Company can develop and fund technological innovations and successfully anticipate consumer needs and preferences. The introduction of new products may require substantial expenditures for advertising and marketing to gain marketplace recognition or to license intellectual property. There is no guarantee that it will be aware of all relevant intellectual property in the industry and may be subject to claims of infringement, which could preclude it from producing and selling a product. Likewise, there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in developing products necessary to compete effectively in the industry or that it will be successful in advertising, marketing and selling new products it develops. The inability to operate the Company’s manufacturing facility at or near full capacity could adversely affect the result of operations. The Absorbent Products segment is a very capital-intensive business, utilizing high cost, high-speed equipment. Since the segment operates in a market that is highly competitive with relatively low margins, it is essential to operate near full capacity to achieve high efficiencies and profitable financial results. Acquisition Risks: The Company may pursue acquisitions of new product lines or businesses. It may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if suitable candidates are identified, it may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially acceptable terms. Even if the Company is able to consummate an acquisition, the transaction would present many risks, including, among others: failing to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings; difficulty incorporating and integrating the acquired technologies, services or products; coordinating, establishing or expanding sales, distribution and marketing functions, as necessary; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; being exposed to unanticipated or contingent liabilities or incurring the impairment of goodwill; the loss of key employees, customers, or distribution partners; and difficulties implementing and maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures over the systems, products and processes of the acquired company. If the Company does not achieve the anticipated benefits of its acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by management, or if others do not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as the Company does, there could be a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 10 