ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s three operating business segments described above are all subject to a number of risk factors, the occurrence of any one or more of which could have a significant adverse impact on the business, financial condition, or results of operations. While some of the more significant, but not all, risks faced by each operating segment are identified below, it should be recognized that as noted elsewhere herein, there are other risks and circumstances that could also adversely impact the operating results of each segment and the Company as a whole. GeneralAn unfavorable outcome of the SEC litigation could result in costly filings and a less favorable market treatment which has historically been afforded closed end funds. See Note I in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Housewares/Small AppliancesThis segment operates in a highly competitive and extremely price sensitive environment. Therefore, increased costs that cannot be fully absorbed into the price of products or passed along in the form of price increases to the retail customer can have a significant adverse impact on operating results. Loss of the Division’s largest customer, Wal-mart, or a significant reduction in business with this customer, could have a serious adverse impact on overall performance. Similarly, the loss of, or material reduction in, business from any of this Division’s other major customers could prove detrimental to this segment’s operations. Housewares/Small Appliances is also dependent upon a handful of key suppliers based in the Orient for finished product. The inability of one or more of these manufacturers to provide quality product on a timely basis could be both costly and disruptive. The sales of this Division are also dependent upon the strength of the United States retail markets and consumer spending in general, particularly during the key Christmas selling season. Since all of this segment’s finished goods are produced in the Orient, primarily China, this Division could also be adversely affected by changes in trade relations with China, currency fluctuations, or interruptions in international shipments. DefenseThe opportunity for this segment to obtain business is largely dependent upon competitive bidding and U.S. government defense spending. If successful in obtaining a bid, the work awarded is usually subject to a firm fixed price contract that provides little, if any, economic relief for changed conditions or circumstances that are detrimental to the contractor. Thus, contracts that are obtained must be performed on time, with quality product that is produced within previously projected cost parameters. In addition, any contract with the United States Government, whether direct or indirect, is subject to termination for the convenience of the Government, a provision that is unique to government contracts. There is also the risk that contracts with the Government may not be funded or the risk that there will be a change in requirements resulting in significant reductions in overall quantities or a stretch out of previously planned delivery schedules. Absorbent ProductsIn addition to being highly capital intensive, this business segment utilizes complex technology and equipment that can be time consuming to receive, install, and then become fully operable on a consistent and reliable basis. It is highly competitive with low margins, where volume is critical. Therefore, it becomes essential to develop and operate at a maximum capacity and to achieve high efficiency in order to provide bottom line results. Loss of its largest customer, or a significant reduction in volume from that customer, could adversely impact the Division. Product pricing and overall performance is extremely sensitive to material commodity costs, including such items as wood pulp and petroleum based products. Freight and energy costs can also have a significant impact on overall performance. Page 6 of 46 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 