Item 1A Risk Factors The Company’s short and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond management’s control. Shareholders and prospective shareholders of the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Changes in demand for blood products could affect profitability The Company’s operations are structured to produce particular blood products based on customers’ existing demand, and perceived potential changes in demand, for these products. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand for these products could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with customers if the Company is unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, to fill orders adequately. This could result in a decrease in overall revenue and profits. Decreases in demand may require the Company to make sizeable investments to restructure operations away from declining products to the production of new products. Lack of access to sufficient capital, or lack of adequate time to properly respond to such a c hange in demand, could result in declining revenue and profits as customers transfer to other suppliers. Additionally, an increase in the supply of blood products in the marketplace could result in declining revenue and profits for the Company due to a market driven decrease in prices. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices could reduce profitability The cost of collecting, processing and testing blood products has risen significantly in recent years and will likely continue to increase. These cost increases are related to new and improved testing procedures, increased regulatory requirements related to blood safety, and higher staff and supply costs related to collecting and processing blood products. Competition and fixed price contracts may limit the Company’s ability to maintain existing operating margins. Some competitors have greater resources than the Company to sustain periods of marginally profitable or unprofitable sales. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices, may reduce profitability and may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. Competition may cause a loss of customers and an inability to pass on increases in costs thereby impacting profitability Competition in the blood products and blood services industries is primarily based on fees charged to customers. The Company’s primary competition in the blood products market is the ARC, which owns a significant market share advantage over the Company in the regions the Company operates. As a result, the ARC possesses significant market power to influence prices, which can prevent the Company from passing along increases in costs to customers. In addition, hospital consolidations and affiliations allow certain customers to negotiate as a group, exerting greater price pressure on the Company. These changes may have a negative impact on the Company’s future revenue, and may negatively impact future profitability. Changing economic conditions could impact the ability of customers to pay the Company’s invoices The Company’s principal customers are hospitals that depend on payments from private insurance companies and governments to fund operations, and to pay the Company’s invoices for products and services. Deteriorating economic conditions can result in higher unemployment and a related loss of medical insurance coverage for hospital patients. Reduced reimbursement for medical services can strain the financial health of the Company’s hospital customers, which could impact the ability of these customers to pay the Company’s invoices. The Company does not have sufficient resources to sustain operations for an extended period of time if any significant customer, or several smaller customers, failed to pay the Company’s invoices as expected. 9 Declining blood donations could affect profitability The Company’s blood products business depends on the availability of donated blood. Only a small percentage of the population donates blood, and regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply, result in a decreased pool of potential donors. If the level of donor participation declines, the Company may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to maintain profitability in blood products. Operations depend on services of qualified professionals and competition for their services is strong The Company is highly dependent upon obtaining the services of qualified professionals. In particular, the Company’s operations depend on the services of registered nurses, medical technologists, regulatory and quality assurance professionals, and others with knowledge of the blood industry. Nationwide, the demand for these professionals exceeds the supply and competition for their services is strong. The Company incurs significant costs to hire and retain staff. If the Company is unable to attract and retain a staff of qualified professionals, operations may be adversely affected which, in turn, may adversely impact profitability. Industry regulations and standards could increase operating costs or result in closure of operations The business of collecting, processing and distributing blood products is subject to extensive and complex regulation by the state and federal governments. The Company is required to obtain and maintain numerous licenses in different legal jurisdictions regarding the safety, quality, identity, purity and potency of products, condition of facilities, and that appropriate procedures are utilized. Periodically the FDA conducts inspections of HemaCare’s facilities and operations. At the conclusion of each inspection, the FDA provides the Company with a list, if any, of observations of regulatory issues discovered during the inspection. Previously, the FDA inspected the Company’s California blood product operations and determined that deficiencies existed to require the FDA issue a “Warning Let ter” to notify the Company that significant improvements were required or further regulatory action was likely. Subsequent to the issuance of this letter, the Company invested considerable time and money to address each of the issues raised by the FDA. During 2009, the Company’s California blood product operations were inspected again by the FDA, and at the conclusion of this inspection, the FDA provided the Company with a list of observations; however, the FDA did not document any repeat observations of previous compliance issues. Although future inspections could result in additional regulatory action, the Company’s focus on addressing the specific issues raised in the FDA Warning Letter, resulted in a vastly improved outcome compared to previous inspections. The Company believes it has adequately addressed the issues raised by the FDA, or is in the process of addressing all of the remaining issues. The Company believes that its response and actions taken to address the FDA observations are sufficient that it is in compliance with current FDA regulations; however, the Company cannot insure against future FDA actions, including possible sanctions or closure of selected Company operations. On October 12, 2006, the AABB issued a timeline for gradual implementation of the United States Industry Consensus Standards for the Uniform Labeling of Blood and Blood Components using ISBT 128. In July 2009, the AABB announced that member organizations who fail to convert to ISBT 128 by November 1, 2009 will be subject to a change in their accreditation status to “conditional”. Since the Company failed to comply with this requirement, the Company’s AABB accreditation is currently in “conditional” status. On October 25, 2009, the AABB announced that member organizations that were not compliant by May 1, 2010, must i) submit a detailed plan and timeline for compliance, ii) provide assurance of organizational commitment to the proposed timeline, and iii) provide a description of interim steps to reduce patient risk from noncompliance, including a formal risk assessment. The Company is in the process of converting to the ISBT 128 format, but may not complete the conversion by the May 1, 2010 deadline, in which case the Company may not submit adequate plans as required by the AABB to maintain its “conditional” accreditation. The loss of the Company’s AABB accreditation status could impact the Company’s relationship with selected customers who require blood suppliers be AABB accredited. 10 State and federal laws include anti-kickback and self-referral prohibitions and other regulations that affect the shipment of blood products and the relationships between blood banks, hospitals, physicians and other persons who refer business to each other. Health insurers and government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, also limit reimbursement for products and services, and require compliance with certain regulations before reimbursement will be made. The Company devotes substantial resources to complying with laws and regulations; however, the possibility cannot be eliminated that interpretations of existing laws and regulations will result in findings that the Company has not complied with existing regulations. Such a finding could materially harm the Company’s business. Moreover, healthcare reform is continually under consideration by regulators, and the Company does not know how laws and regulations will change in the future. Pandemic or epidemic outbreak of disease could significantly impact blood donations and have a material adverse impact on profitability If swine flu, avian flu, or other disease, were to develop into a worldwide pandemic, or epidemic in one or more of the regions in which the Company operates, the portion of the public that typically donates blood to the Company may be unable, or unwilling to donate, thereby significantly reducing the availability of blood that the Company relies upon to manufacture blood products. In addition, even if suspected diseases prove to be no more virulent than other more common disease, the heightened fear among the public resulting from widespread media coverage may result in dramatic decline in donations. Moreover, if a significant portion of the Company’s workforce becomes ill, is required to stay home to care for ill family members, or is required to stay home in connection with social distancing progra ms intended to minimize disease transmission, the Company’s operations could be significantly disrupted, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Federal legislative proposals relating to the provision of health care may have a material effect on the Company There are complex legislative proposals pending in the United States Congress relating to health care insurance coverage, cost containment and payments. It is not possible at this time to evaluate whether there will be a material impact on the Company's operations or profitability from any final legislative enactments in this area, nor from any regulatory actions pursuant to any such legislation. Decrease in reimbursement rates may affect profitability Reimbursement rates for blood products and services provided to Medicaid, Medicare and commercial patients, impact the fees that the Company is able to negotiate with customers. In addition, to the degree that the Company’s hospital customers receive lower reimbursement for the products and services provided by the Company, these customers may reduce their demand for these goods and services, and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. If the Company is unable to increase prices for goods and services, the Company’s profitability may be adversely impacted. Not-for-profit status gives advantages to competitors HemaCare is the only significant blood products supplier to hospitals in the U.S. that is operated for profit and investor owned. The not-for-profit competition is exempt from federal and state taxes, and has substantial community support and access to tax-exempt financing. The Company may not be able to continue to compete successfully with not-for-profit organizations and the business and results of operations may suffer material adverse harm. 11 Potential inability to meet future capital needs could impact ability to operate The Company may not generate sufficient operating cash in the future to finance its operations for the next year. The Company may utilize its credit facility with Wells Fargo to help finance its operations. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the debt or equity markets in order to finance future operations and procure necessary equipment. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing on reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient capital to finance future expansion. Reliance on relatively few vendors for significant supplies and services could affect the Company’s ability to operate The Company currently relies on a relatively small number of vendors to supply important supplies and services. Significant price increases, or disruptions in the ability to obtain products and services from existing vendors, may force the Company to find alternative vendors. Alternative vendors may not be available, or may not provide their products and services at favorable prices. If the Company cannot obtain the products and services it currently uses, or alternatives at reasonable prices, the Company’s ability to produce products and provide services may be severely impacted, resulting in a reduction of revenue and profitability. Potential adverse effect from changes in the healthcare industry, including consolidations, could affect access to customers Competition to gain patients on the basis of price, quality and service is intensifying among healthcare providers who are under pressure to decrease the costs of healthcare delivery. There has been significant consolidation among healthcare providers seeking to enhance efficiencies, and this consolidation is expected to continue. As a result of these trends, the Company may be limited in its ability to increase prices for products in the future, even if costs increase. Further, customer attrition as a result of consolidation or closure of hospital facilities may adversely impact the Company. Discontinuation of the operations of the Company’s Florida-based research subsidiary may hinder the Company’s ability to generate profits The Company’s Florida-based research subsidiary recorded a decrease in revenue and a related increase in operating losses throughout the first three quarters of 2007. On November 5, 2007, the Board of Directors of HemaBio closed this operation to avoid further losses. On December 4, 2007, HemaBio executed an Assignment for Benefit of Creditors, under Florida Statutes Section 727.101 et seq., assigning all of its assets to an assignee, who is responsible for taking possession of, protecting, preserving, and liquidating such assets and ultimately distributing the proceeds to creditors of HemaBio according to their priorities as established by Florida law. During 2008, the assignee successfully liquidated most of HemaBio’s assets, includi ng inventory, furniture and equipment. As of December 31, 2009, the assignee was still engaged to complete the liquidation and closure activities. These activities could temporarily increase costs, utilize scarce financial resources, distract management and have a material adverse impact on the Company and its results of operations. In addition, HemaBio creditors could attempt to pursue HemaCare for recovery of unpaid claims if they are not satisfied with the results of the Assignment for Benefit of Creditors process. If HemaBio’s creditors are successful, HemaCare may not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these obligations. Future technological developments or alternative treatments could jeopardize the business As a result of the risks posed by blood-borne diseases, many companies and healthcare providers are currently seeking to develop alternative treatments for blood product transfusions. HemaCare’s business consists of collecting, processing and distributing human blood products and providing blood related therapeutic services. The introduction and acceptance in the market of alternative treatments may cause material adverse harm to the future profitability for these products and to the Company’s business. 12 Limited access to insurance could affect ability to defend against possible claims The Company currently maintains insurance coverage consistent with the industry; however, if the Company experiences losses or the risks associated with the blood industry increase in the future, insurance may become more expensive or unavailable. The Company also cannot give assurance that as the business expands, or the Company introduces new products and services, that additional liability insurance on acceptable terms will be available, or that the existing insurance will provide adequate coverage against any and all potential claims. Also, the limitations on liability contained in various agreements and contracts may not be enforceable and may not otherwise protect the Company from liability for damages. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against the Company that exceeds available ins urance coverage, or changes in insurance policies, such as premium increases or the imposition of large deductibles or co-insurance requirements, may materially and adversely impact the Company’s business. Ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees The Company’s success depends significantly on the continued services of key management and skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, the blood product and blood service industries. The Company does not have employment agreements with most key employees, nor maintain life insurance policies on them. The loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or the Company’s inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse impact on revenue and on the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage. The Company cannot guarantee that it can retain key management and skilled personnel, or that it will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other high ly qualified personnel in the future. Product safety and product liability could provide exposure to claims and litigation Blood products carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases, including, but not limited to, hepatitis, HIV and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. HemaCare screens donors, uses highly qualified testing service providers, and conducts selective blood testing, to test blood products for known pathogens in accordance with industry standards, and complies with all applicable safety regulations. Nevertheless, the risk that screening and testing processes might fail, or that new pathogens may be undetected by them, cannot be completely eliminated. There is currently no test to detect the pathogen responsible for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. If patients are infected by known or unknown pathogens, claims may exceed insurance coverage and materially and adversely impact the Company’s financial condition. Targeted partner blood drives involve higher collection costs Part of the Company’s current operations involves conducting blood drives in partnership with hospitals. These blood drives are conducted under the name of the hospital partner and require that all promotional materials and other printed material include the name of the hospital partner. This strategy lacks the efficiencies associated with blood drives that are not targeted to benefit particular hospital partners. As a result, collection costs might be higher than those experienced by the Company’s competition and may impact profitability and growth plans. Bio-Hazard risks could cause the Company to incur substantial costs HemaCare’s operations involve the controlled use of bio-hazardous materials and chemicals. Although the Company believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed the resources of the Company and its insurance coverage. The Company may incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with environmental regulations as it develops and expands its business. 13 Business interruption due to terrorism and increased security measures in response to terrorism could adversely impact profitability HemaCare’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce and freedom of movement for patients and donors. Delays or stoppages in the transportation of perishable blood products and interruptions of mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security, as a result of terrorist activities and potential activities, which may target health care facilities or medical products. The Company may also experience delays in receiving payments from payers that have been impacted by terrorist activities and potential activities. The U.S. economy in ge neral is adversely impacted by terrorist activities, and potential activities, and any economic downturn may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, impair its ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact its ability to grow its business. Business interruption due to earthquakes could adversely impact profitability HemaCare’s principal blood products and blood services operations, as well as the Company’s corporate headquarters, are located in Southern California, which is an area known for potentially destructive earthquakes. A severe event in this location could have a substantial negative impact on the ability of the Company to continue to operate. Any significant delay in resuming operations following such an event could cause a material adverse impact on the profitability of the Company. In addition, the Company’s insurance policies do not provide any coverage for damages as a result of an earthquake. Therefore, the Company would bear all of the costs incurred to resume operations after an earthquake and the Company may not have sufficient resources to do so. Evaluation and consideration of strategic alternatives, and other significant projects, may distract management from reacting appropriately to business challenges and lead to reduced profitability As a publicly traded Company, management must constantly evaluate and consider new strategic alternatives, and other significant projects, in an attempt to maximize shareholder value. The Company does not possess a large management team that can both consider strategic alternatives and manage daily operations. Therefore, management distractions associated with the evaluation and consideration of strategic alternatives could prevent management from dedicating appropriate time to immediate business challenges or other significant business decisions. This may cause a material adverse impact on the future profitability of the Company. Strategy to acquire companies may result in unsuitable acquisitions or failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, which could lead to reduced profitability The Company may embark on a growth strategy through acquisitions of companies or operations that complement existing product lines, customers or other capabilities. The Company may be unsuccessful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, or may be unable to consummate a desired acquisition. To the extent any future acquisitions are completed, the Company may be unsuccessful in integrating acquired companies or their operations, or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, the Company may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse impact on future profitability. Some of the risks that may affect the Company’s ability to integrate, or realize any anticipated benefits from, acquisitions include: · unexpected losses of key employees or customer of the acquired company; · difficulties integrating the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls; · difficulties coordinating new product and process development; · difficulties hiring additional management and other critical personnel; · difficulties increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of the Company’s operations; · difficulties consolidating facilities, transferring processes and know-how; · difficulties reducing costs of the acquired company’s business; · diversion of management’s attention from the management of the Company; and · adverse impacts on existing business relationships with customers. 14 Articles of Incorporation and Rights Plan could delay or prevent an acquisition or sale of HemaCare HemaCare’s Articles of Incorporation empower the Board of Directors to establish and issue a class of preferred stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. This gives the Board of Directors the ability to deter, discourage or make more difficult for a change in control of HemaCare, even if such a change in control would be in the interest of a significant number of shareholders or if such a change in control would provide shareholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price for the Company’s common stock. In addition, the Board of Directors has adopted a Shareholder’s Rights Plan designed to require a person or group interested in acquiring a significant or controlling interest in HemaCare to negotiate with the Board. Under the terms of the Company’s Shareholders’ Rights Plan, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 15% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all of the other shareholders would have the right to purchase securities from the Company at a discount to the fair market value of the common stock, causing substantial dilution to the acquiring person or group. The Shareholders’ Rights Plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, may materially adversely impact the shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and the Company may fail to meet investor expectations The Company’s quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and are likely to continue to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within the Company’s control. If quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results include the following: · changes in demand for the Company’s products and services, and the ability to obtain the required resources to satisfy customer demand; · ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products or services in a timely manner; · ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; · ability to control costs; and · ability to attract qualified blood donors. The level of expenses incurred depends, in part, on the expectation for future revenue. In addition, since many expenses are fixed in the short term, the Company cannot significantly reduce expenses if there is a decline in revenue to avoid losses. Stocks traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are subject to greater market risks than those of exchange-traded stocks since they are less liquid HemaCare’s common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market on October 29, 1998 because of the failure to maintain Nasdaq’s requirement of a minimum bid price of $1.00. Since November 2, 1998, the common stock has traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and generally are not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market or on another national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of the Company’s common stock or to obtain accurate price quotations. 15 Stock price could be volatile The price of HemaCare’s common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by the Company or by the competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of HemaCare’s common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in HemaCare’s common stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. The market price of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, existing stockholders. Most of the Company’s outstanding shares are eligible for public resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Approximately 1.7 million shares of the Company’s common stock are currently held by affiliates and may be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement or in accordance with the volume and other limitations of Rule 144 or pursuant to other exempt transactions. Future sales of common stock by significant stockholders, including affiliates, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. Future sales of equity securities could dilute the Company’s common stock The Company may seek new financing in the future through the sale of its securities. Future sales of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of the common stock currently outstanding. In addition, the perceived risk of dilution may cause some shareholders to sell their shares, which may further reduce the market price of the common stock. Lack of dividend payments could impact the price of the Company’s common stock The Company intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business, and therefore does not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will depend on the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends during the term of the agreement. Ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited, resulting in income taxes sooner than currently anticipated As of December 31, 2009, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”) of approximately $6.5 million for federal income tax purposes that will begin to expire in 2011, and $10.7 million for state income tax purposes that will begin to expire in 2017. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income, to the extent the Company generates any taxable income, and thereby reduces or eliminates future federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an ownership change as defined in Section 382. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percent over a three - -year period. In the event that an ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of the Company’s NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the value of the Company’s stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. The Company could experience an ownership change under Section 382 as a result of events in the past in combination with events in the future. If so, the use of the Company’s NOLs, or a portion thereof, against future taxable income may be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, which may result in expiration of a portion of the NOLs before utilization. Therefore, the Company could be liable for income taxes sooner than otherwise would be true if the Company were not subject to Section 382 limitations. 16 Use and disclosure of patient or donor information is subject to privacy and security regulations, which may result in increased costs While collecting blood from donors, or while performing therapeutic procedures for patients, the Company may collect, use, disclose, maintain and transmit patient information in ways that will be subject to many of the numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission and/or confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including the administrative simplification requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (“HIPAA”). The HIPAA Privacy Rule restricts the use and disclosure of patient information, and requires safeguarding that information. The HIPAA Security Rule establishes elaborate requirements for safeguarding patient information tran smitted or stored electronically. HIPAA applies to covered entities, which may include healthcare facilities and does include hospitals that will contract for the use of the Company’s services. The HIPAA rules require covered entities to bind contractors like the Company to comply with certain burdensome HIPAA rule requirements known as business associate requirements. The Company may be required to make costly system purchases or system modifications, and make significant and burdensome changes to the Company’s policies and procedures in order to comply with the HIPAA rule requirements. Inappropriate disclosure of protected information may result in significant liability to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. In addition, other Federal and state consumer protection laws may also apply to the Company’s collection, use, storage, and disclosure of other personal information of donors or patients. The Company’s efforts to adhere to these laws, or any failure to abide by these laws, may result in significant liability for the Company or increase the Company’s cost of doing business. Evaluation of internal control and remediation of potential problems will be costly and time consuming and could expose weaknesses in financial reporting The regulations implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require management to perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting beginning with its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will be required to test and evaluate the design and effectiveness of such controls beginning with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. This process is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management. This process can reveal material weaknesses in internal controls that will require remediation. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” elsewhere in this report. The remediation process may also be expensive and time consuming, and management can give no assurance that the remediation effort will be completed on time or be effective. In addition, management can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. Management also can give no assurance that the process of evaluation and the auditor’s attestation will be completed on time. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in the C ompany’s financial statements and harm the Company’s stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. If the Company is unable to adequately design its internal control systems, or prepare an “internal control report”, to the satisfaction of the Company’s auditors, the Company’s auditors may issue a qualified opinion on the Company’s financial statements. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 