ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The Company’s short and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond management’s control. Shareholders and prospective shareholders of the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report. The matters discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical are forward-looking statements. These statements may also be identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “project,” “will” and similar expressions, as they relate to the Company, its management and its industry. Investors and prospective investors are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which will be beyond the control of the Company. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various risks and uncertainties, including those in “Item 1A—Risk Factors” or in other filings by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements to reflect later events and circumstances or actual outcomes. 7 Changes in demand for blood products could affect profitability The Company’s operations are structured to produce particular blood products based on customers’ existing demand, and perceived potential changes in demand, for these products. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand of these products could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with customers if the Company is unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, adequately to fill orders. This could result in a net decrease in overall revenues and profits. Decreases in demand may require the Company to make sizeable investments to restructure operations away from declining products to the production of new products. Lack of access to sufficient capital, or lack of adequate time to properly respond to such a change in demand, could result in declining revenue and profits as customers transfer to other suppliers. Declining blood donations could affect profitability The business depends on the availability of donated blood. Only a small percentage of the population donates blood, and regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply have decreased the pool of potential donors. If the level of donor participation declines, the Company may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to maintain profitability in blood products. Market prices may not rise as costs increase which could reduce profitability The costs of collecting, processing and testing blood have risen significantly in recent years and will likely continue to increase. These cost increases are related to new and improved testing procedures to assure that blood is free of infectious disease, increased regulatory requirements related to blood safety, and increased costs associated with recruiting blood donors. New testing protocols have required the Company to outsource much of the required testing. Competition and fixed price contracts may limit the Company’s ability to pass these increased costs to customers. Some competitors have greater resources than the Company to sustain periods of unprofitable sales. In this circumstance, the increased costs may reduce profitability and may have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations. Competition may cause a loss of customers and an increase in costs and impact profitability Competition within the blood services and blood products industries is constantly changing. Recent consolidations of blood services providers has changed the competitive environment for the Company’s blood services segment. Competition for customers and trained apheresis nurses is increasing. This has caused the Company to incur significant recruitment costs to replace nurses, dramatically increase nurses’ compensation and incur higher marketing related expenses in order to attract and retain customers. In addition, consolidations and affiliations within the hospital industry have changed the market for the blood products segment. The newly consolidated or affiliated hospitals have started to negotiate with the Company as a group, and therefore exert greater price pressure on the Company. These changes may have a negative impact on the Company’s future revenue, and may negatively impact future profitability. Operations depend on obtaining the services of qualified professionals and competition for their services is strong The Company is highly dependent upon obtaining the services of qualified professionals. In particular, the Company’s operations depend on the services of registered nurses and other medical technologists, regulatory and quality assurance professionals, and others with knowledge of the blood industry. Nationwide, the demand for these professionals exceeds the supply and competition for their services is strong. If the Company is unable to attract and retain a staff of qualified professionals, operations may be adversely affected. 8 Heavily regulated industry could increase operating costs The business of collecting, processing and distributing blood products is subject to extensive and complex regulation by the state and federal governments. The Company is required to obtain and maintain numerous licenses in different legal jurisdictions regarding the safety of products, facilities and procedures, and regarding the purity and quality of blood products. In addition, state and federal laws include anti-kickback and self-referral prohibitions and other regulations that affect the shipping of blood products and the relationships between blood banks, hospitals, physicians and other persons who refer business to each other. Health insurers and government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, also limit reimbursement for products and services, and require compliance with certain regulations before reimbursement will be made. The Company devotes substantial resources to complying with laws and regulations, and believes it is currently in compliance; however, the possibility cannot be eliminated that interpretations of existing laws and regulations will result in a finding that the Company has not complied with significant existing regulations. Such a finding could materially harm the business. Moreover, healthcare reform is continually under consideration by regulators, and the Company does not know how laws and regulations will change in the future. A regulatory agency recently released a draft proposal to lengthen the time between donations that could negatively impact the Company’s collection efforts. Such changes in the laws and regulations over blood product operations may require costly compliance efforts which may cause some of the Company’s operations to be prohibitively expensive or impossible to continue. Decrease in reimbursement rates may affect profitability Reimbursement rates for blood products and services provided to Medicaid and Medicare patients impact the fees that the Company is able to negotiate with hospitals. In addition, to the degree that the Company’s hospital customers receive lower reimbursement for the products and services provided by the Company, these customers may reduce their demand for these goods and services, and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. If the Company is unable to increase prices for goods and services, the Company’s profitability may be adversely affected. Lease for a major production facility has expired and if the Company needs to vacate it may be unable to locate an alternative facility thereby disrupting business The long-term lease for the Company’s Sherman Oaks production facility has expired. The Company has been unable to negotiate a lease renewal. Presently, the Company continues to occupy this facility with the possibility of receiving a 30-day notice to vacate at any time. The lack of a long-term lease agreement for this facility could have an adverse impact on profitability if the Company receives a 30-day notice to vacate and is unable to locate an alternative facility. The Company’s ability to produce platelet and whole blood products for Southern California customers may be severely impacted and result in a reduction of revenue and profitability. Targeted partner blood drives involve higher collection costs Part of the Company’s current operations involves conducting blood drives in partnership with hospitals. Blood drives are conducted under the name of the hospital partner and require that all promotional materials and other printed material include the name of the hospital partner. This strategy lacks the efficiencies associated with blood drives that are not targeted to benefit particular hospital partners. As a result, collection costs might be higher than those experienced by the Company’s competition and may affect profitability and growth plans. 9 Not-For-Profit status gives advantages to competitors since they are exempt from taxes HemaCare is the only significant blood products supplier to hospitals in the U.S. that is operated for profit and investor owned. The not-for-profit competition is exempt from federal and state taxes, and has substantial community support and access to tax-exempt financing. The Company may not be able to continue to compete successfully with not-for-profit organizations and the business and results of operations may suffer material adverse harm. Reliance on relatively few vendors for significant supplies and services could affect the Company’s ability to operate The Company currently relies on a relatively small number of vendors to provide important supplies and services. Disruptions in the ability of these vendors to provide products and services may force the Company to find alternative vendors. Alternative vendors may not be available, or may not provide their products and services at the same prices as the Company’s current vendors. In particular, the number of vendors supplying albumin, which is a critical supply used by the Company’s blood services business segment, has declined. If the Company cannot obtain the products and services it currently uses, the Company’s ability to produce products and provide services to its customers may be severely impacted and result in a reduction of revenue and profitability. Limited access to insurance could affect ability to defend against possible claims The Company currently maintains insurance coverage consistent with the industry; however, if the Company experiences losses or the risks associated with the blood products industry increase in the future, insurance may become more expensive or unavailable. The Company also cannot give assurance that as the business expands, or the Company introduces new products and services, that additional liability insurance on acceptable terms will be available, or that the existing insurance will provide adequate coverage against any and all potential claims. Also, the limitations on liability contained in various agreements and contracts may not be enforceable and may not otherwise protect the Company from liability for damages. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against the Company that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in insurance policies, such as premium increases or the imposition of large deductibles or co-insurance requirements, may materially and adversely affect the business. Potential adverse effect from changes in the healthcare industry, including consolidations, could affect access to customers Competition to gain patients on the basis of price, quality and service is intensifying among healthcare providers who are under pressure to decrease the costs of healthcare delivery. There has been significant consolidation among healthcare providers as providers seek to enhance efficiencies, and this consolidation is expected to continue. As a result of these trends, the Company may be limited in its ability to increase prices for products in the future, even if costs increase. Further, customer attrition as a result of consolidation or closure of hospital facilities may adversely impact the Company. Future technological developments, including the development of synthetic substitutes for blood products, could jeopardize business As a result of the risks posed by blood-borne diseases, many companies are currently seeking to develop alternative treatments for blood product transfusions or synthetic substitutes for human blood products. HemaCare’s business consists of collecting, processing and distributing human blood and blood products. The introduction and acceptance in the market of alternative treatments or synthetic blood substitutes may cause material adverse harm to the business. In addition, recent technological developments to extend the shelf-life of products currently offered by the Company, could increase the 10 available supply in the market, and put downward pressure on the price for these products. This may cause a material adverse impact on the future profitability for these products. Potential inability to meet future capital needs could affect plans to finance future expansion Currently, the Company believes it has sufficient cash available through its cash on hand, bank credit facilities and funds from operations to finance its operations for the next year. The Company generated $1,655,000 in net income in 2005; however, there is no assurance this performance will be sustainable, and the Company may need to raise additional capital in the debt or equity markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing on reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient capital to finance future expansion. Ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees The Company’s success depends significantly on the continued services of key management and skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, the blood product and blood service industries. The Company does not have employment agreements with most key employees, nor maintain life insurance policies on them. The loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or the Company’s inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, could have a material adverse affect on revenue and on the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage. The Company cannot guarantee that it can retain key management and skilled personnel, or that it will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Product safety and product liability could provide exposure to claims and litigation Blood products carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases, including but not limited to hepatitis, HIV and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. HemaCare screens donors, uses highly qualified testing service providers to test its blood products for known pathogens in accordance with industry standards, and complies with all applicable safety regulations. Nevertheless, the risk that screening and testing processes might fail or that new pathogens may be undetected by them cannot be completely eliminated. There is currently no test to detect the pathogen responsible for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. If patients are infected by known or unknown pathogens, claims may exceed insurance coverage and materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Environmental risks could cause the Company to incur substantial costs to maintain compliance HemaCare’s operations involve the controlled use of bio-hazardous materials and chemicals. Although the Company believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed the resources of the Company and its insurance coverage. The Company may incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with environmental regulations as it develops and expands its business. Business interruption due to terrorism and increased security measures in response to terrorism HemaCare’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce and freedom of movement for patients and donors. Delays or stoppages in the transportation of perishable blood products and interruptions of mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security, as a 11 result of the terrorist activities and potential activities, which may target health care facilities or medical products. The Company may also experience delays in receiving payments from payers that have been affected by terrorist activities and potential activities. The U.S. economy in general is adversely affected by terrorist activities, and potential activities, and any economic downturn may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, impair its ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect its ability to grow its business. Articles of Incorporation and Rights Plan could delay or prevent an acquisition or sale of HemaCare HemaCare’s Articles of Incorporation empower the Board of Directors to establish and issue a class of preferred stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. This gives the Board of Directors the ability to deter, discourage or make more difficult for a change in control of HemaCare, even if such a change in control would be in the interest of a significant number of shareholders or if such a change in control would provide shareholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. In addition, the Board of Directors has adopted a Shareholder’s Rights Plan designed to require a person or group interested in acquiring a significant or controlling interest in HemaCare to negotiate with the Board. Under the terms of our Shareholders’ Rights Plan, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 15% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all of the other shareholders would have the right to purchase securities from the Company at a discount to the fair market value of the common stock, causing substantial dilution to the acquiring person or group. The Shareholders’ Rights Plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, may materially adversely affect the shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. For a description of the Shareholders’ Rights Plan see the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 5, 1998. Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and the Company may fail to meet investor expectations The Company’s quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and are likely to continue to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within the Company’s control. If quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results include the following: · changes in demand for the Company’s products and services, and the ability to attain the required resources to satisfy customer demand; · ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products or services in a timely manner; · ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; · ability to control costs; and · ability to attract qualified blood donors. The amount of expenses incurred depends, in part, on expectation regarding future revenue. In addition, since many expenses are fixed in the short term, the Company cannot significantly reduce expenses if there is a decline in revenue to avoid losses. 12 Stocks traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are subject to greater market risks than those of exchange-traded and Nasdaq stocks since they are less liquid HemaCare’s common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market on October 29, 1998 because of the failure to maintain Nasdaq’s requirement of a minimum bid price of $1.00. Since November 2, 1998 the common stock has traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and generally are not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to its price. Stock price could be volatile The price of HemaCare’s common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by the Company or by the competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of HemaCare’s common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in HemaCare’s common stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. Future sales of equity securities could dilute the Company’s common stock The Company may seek new financing in the future through the sale of its securities. Future sales of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of the common stock currently outstanding. In addition, the perceived risk of dilution may cause some shareholders to sell their shares, which may further reduce the market price of the common stock. Lack of dividend payments The Company intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business, and therefore does not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will depend on the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends during the term of the agreement. Evaluation of internal control and remediation of potential problems will be costly and time consuming and could expose weaknesses in financial reporting The regulations implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. The Company’s independent auditors will be required to confirm in writing whether management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting is fairly stated in all material respects, and separately report on whether they believe management maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. This process will be expensive and time consuming, and will require significant attention of management. Management can give no assurance that material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. Management also can give no assurance that the process of evaluation and the auditor’s attestation will be completed on time. If a material weakness is discovered, corrective action may be time 13 consuming, costly and further divert the attention of management. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in the Company’s financial statements and harm the Company’s stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. If the Company is unable to adequately design its internal control systems, or prepare an “internal control report” to the satisfaction of the Company’s auditors, the Company’s auditors may issue a qualified opinion on the Company’s financial statements. Evaluation and consideration of strategic alternatives may distract management from reacting appropriately to business challenges and lead to reduced profitability As a publicly traded Company, management must constantly evaluate and consider new strategic alternatives in an attempt to maximize shareholder value. The Company does not possess a large management team that can both consider strategic alternatives and manage daily operations. Therefore, management distractions associated with the evaluation and consideration of strategic alternatives, could prevent management from dedicating appropriate time to immediate business challenges or other significant business decisions. This may cause a material adverse impact on the future profitability for the Company. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 