Item 1A Risk Factors The Company’s short and long-term success is subject to many factors that are beyond management’s control. Shareholders and prospective shareholders of the Company should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report. The Company’s business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Changes in demand for blood products for research and cellular therapy could affect profitability The Company’s operations are structured to produce particular blood products based on customers’ existing demand, and perceived potential changes in demand, for these products. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand for these products could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with customers if the Company is unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, to fill orders adequately. This could result in a decrease in overall revenue and profits. Decreases in demand may require the Company to make sizeable investments to restructure operations away from declining products to the production of new products. Lack of access to sufficient capital, or lack of adequate time to properly respond to such a change in demand, could result in declining revenue and profits, as customers transfer to other suppliers. 7 Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices could reduce profitability The cost of collecting, processing and testing blood products has risen significantly in recent years and will likely continue to increase. These cost increases are related to new and improved testing procedures, increased regulatory requirements related to blood safety, and higher staff and supply costs related to collecting and processing blood products. Competition and fixed price contracts may limit the Company’s ability to maintain existing operating margins. Some competitors have greater resources than the Company to sustain periods of marginally profitable or unprofitable sales. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices may reduce profitability and may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. Competition may cause a loss of customers and an inability to pass on increases in costs thereby impacting profitability Competition in the blood products and therapeutic services industries is primarily based on fees charged to customers. If the Company is unable to sell its products and services and competitive rates, it will lose market share to competitors who can offer the same products and services to customers at lower prices. In addition, hospital consolidations and affiliations allow certain customers to negotiate as a group, exerting greater price pressure on the Company. These changes may have a negative impact on the Company’s future revenue, and may negatively impact future profitability. Changing economic conditions could impact the ability of customers to pay the Company’s invoices The Company’s Therapeutic Services customers are hospitals that depend on payments from private insurance companies and governments to fund operations, and to pay the Company’s invoices for products and services. Deteriorating economic conditions can result in higher unemployment and a related loss of medical insurance coverage for hospital patients. Reduced reimbursement for medical services can strain the financial health of the Company’s hospital customers, which could impact the ability of these customers to pay the Company’s invoices. The Company does not have sufficient resources to sustain operations for an extended period of time if any significant customer, or several smaller customers, failed to pay the Company’s invoices as expected. Declining platelet and research product donations could affect profitability The Company’s platelets and research products business depends on the availability of appropriate donors. Only a small percentage of the population donates platelets, and regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply, result in a decreased pool of potential donors. If the level of donor participation declines, the Company may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to maintain profitability. In addition, the donor population is aging, resulting in fewer donors as those donors develop health issues that make them ineligible. Operations depend on services of qualified professionals and competition for their services is strong The Company is highly dependent upon obtaining the services of qualified professionals. In particular, the Company’s operations depend on the services of registered nurses, particularly those specializing in therapeutic apheresis, medical technologists, phlebotomists, regulatory and quality assurance professionals, and others with knowledge of the industry. Nationwide, the demand for these professionals exceeds the supply and competition for their services is strong. The Company incurs significant costs to hire and retain staff. If the Company is unable to attract and retain a staff of qualified professionals, operations may be adversely affected which, in turn, may adversely impact profitability. In California there is an additional state licensure requirement for some licensed staff, especially medical technologists. This additional requirement within the state of California further limits the pool of certain professional staff. 8 Industry regulations and standards could increase operating costs or result in closure of operations The business of collecting, processing and distributing blood products is subject to extensive and complex regulation by the city, county, state and federal governments. The Company is required to obtain and maintain licenses in all jurisdictions in which it operates. Periodically, the FDA conducts inspections of HemaCare’s facilities and operations and at the conclusion of each inspection, the FDA provides the Company with a list of observations of regulatory issues discovered during the inspection. The FDA inspected the Company’s Van Nuys, California facility in 2011, and identified two issues, both of which are the subject of a corrective action plan accepted by the FDA, and there is no further regulatory action pending with FDA. Future inspections, however, could result in additional regulatory action. The Company will continue to focus on and monitor the issues raised by the FDA to ensure a favorable outcome in future inspections. The Company believes that its response and on-going actions taken to address the FDA observations are sufficient and that it is in compliance with current FDA regulations; however, the Company cannot insure against future FDA actions, including possible sanctions or closure of selected Company operations. State and federal laws include anti-kickback and self-referral prohibitions and other regulations that affect the shipment of blood products and the relationships between blood banks, hospitals, physicians and other persons who refer business to each other. Health insurers and government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, also limit reimbursement for products and services, and require compliance with certain regulations before reimbursement will be made. The Company devotes substantial resources to complying with laws and regulations; however, the possibility cannot be eliminated that interpretations of existing laws and regulations will result in findings that the Company has not complied with existing regulations. Such a finding could materially harm the Company’s business. Moreover, healthcare reform is continually under consideration by regulators, and the Company does not know how laws and regulations will change in the future. Pandemic or epidemic outbreak of disease could significantly impact platelet and research donations and have a material adverse impact on profitability If H1N1 flu, avian flu, syphilis, human T cell lymphphotropic virus types I and II, chagas or other disease, were to develop into a worldwide pandemic or epidemic in one or more regions in which the Company operates, the portion of the public that typically donates platelets to the Company may be unable, or unwilling to donate, thereby significantly reducing the availability of platelets and research products upon which the Company relies. In addition, even if suspected diseases prove to be no more virulent than other more common disease, the heightened fear among the public resulting from widespread media coverage may result in a dramatic decline in donations. Moreover, if a significant portion of the Company’s workforce becomes ill, is required to stay home to care for ill family members, or is required to stay home in connection with social distancing programs intended to minimize disease transmission, the Company’s operations could be significantly disrupted, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Healthcare Reform Bill may have a material effect on the Company The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law on March 23, 2010 and was shortly thereafter amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 which became law on March 30, 2010. Healthcare reform will change health care insurance coverage, cost containment and payments. It is not possible at this time to evaluate whether there will be a material impact on the Company's operations or profitability from any legislative enactments in this area, nor from any regulatory actions pursuant to this legislation. Leadership changes within our customers and competitors could affect revenue Changes in leadership within our customers and competitors could impact the environment in which we compete based on changes in their strategic direction. Leadership changes within our customer base could result in changes to contract, thus impacting revenue. Changes in leadership within our competitors could also impact our current customer base and thus revenue. 9 Decrease in reimbursement rates may affect profitability Reimbursement rates for blood products and services provided to Medicaid, Medicare and commercial patients, impact the fees that the Company is able to negotiate with customers. In addition, to the degree that the Company’s hospital customers receive lower reimbursement for the goods and services provided by the Company, these customers may reduce their demand for these goods and services, and adversely affect the Company’s revenue. Potential inability to meet future capital needs could impact ability to operate The Company may not generate sufficient operating cash in the future to finance its operations for the next year. The Company may not utilize its credit facility with Wells Fargo to help finance its operations due to the amendment to the credit agreement which changes the borrowing base from accounts receivable to cash. This in effect takes away the ability to draw on the line of credit. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the debt or equity markets in order to finance future operations and procure necessary equipment. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such financing on reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient capital to finance future expansion. We rely on our Blood Purchase Agreement with American National Red Cross to derive a significant portion of our revenues The Company is party to a Blood Purchase Agreement with ARC, pursuant to which the Company sells to ARC on an exclusive basis, ISBT labeled single donor platelets. The Blood Purchase Agreement has an initial term expiring on June 30, 2016. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from sales to ARC under this agreement. Any disruption in sales to ARC, due to the early termination of the Blood Purchase Agreement or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on relatively few vendors for significant supplies and services could affect the Company’s ability to operate The Company currently relies on a relatively small number of vendors to supply important supplies and services. Significant price increases, or disruptions in the ability to obtain products and services from existing vendors, may force the Company to find alternative vendors. Alternative vendors may not be available, or may not provide their products and services at favorable prices. If the Company cannot obtain the products and services it currently uses, or alternatives at reasonable prices, the Company’s ability to produce products and provide services may be severely impacted, resulting in a reduction of revenue and profitability. Potential adverse effect from changes in the healthcare industry, including consolidations, could affect access to customers Competition to gain patients on the basis of price, quality and service is intensifying among healthcare providers who are under pressure to decrease the costs of healthcare delivery. There has been significant consolidation among healthcare providers seeking to enhance efficiencies, and this consolidation is expected to continue. As a result of these trends, the Company may be limited in its ability to increase prices for supplies in the future, even if costs increase. Further, customer attrition as a result of consolidation or closure of hospital facilities may adversely impact the Company. Limited access to insurance could affect ability to defend against possible claims The Company currently maintains insurance coverage consistent with the industry; however, if the Company experiences losses or the risks associated with the industry increase in the future, insurance may become more expensive or unavailable. The Company also cannot give assurance as the business expands, or as the Company introduces new products and services, that additional liability insurance on acceptable terms will be available, or that the existing insurance will provide adequate coverage against any and all potential claims. Also, the limitations on liability contained in various agreements and contracts may not be enforceable and may not otherwise protect the Company from liability for damages. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against the Company that exceeds available insurance coverage, or changes in insurance policies, such as premium increases or the imposition of large deductibles or co-insurance requirements, may materially and adversely impact the Company’s business. 10 Ability to attract, retain and motivate management and other skilled employees The Company’s success depends significantly on the continued services of key management and skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and there are a limited number of people with knowledge of, and experience in, the blood products and therapeutic services industries. The Company does not have employment agreements with most key employees, nor maintain life insurance policies on them. The loss of key personnel, especially without advance notice, or the Company’s inability to hire or retain qualified personnel, particularly therapeutic apheresis registered nurses, could have a material adverse impact on revenue and on the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage. The Company cannot guarantee that it can retain key management and skilled personnel, or that it will be able to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Product safety and product liability could provide exposure to claims and litigation Platelets and research products carry the risk of transmitting infectious diseases, including, but not limited to, hepatitis, HIV and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. HemaCare screens donors, uses highly qualified testing service providers, and conducts selective blood testing, to test blood products for known pathogens in accordance with industry standards, and complies with all applicable safety regulations. Nevertheless, the risk that screening and testing processes might fail, or that new pathogens may be undetected by them, cannot be completely eliminated. There is currently no test to detect the pathogen responsible for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. If patients are infected by known or unknown pathogens, claims may exceed insurance coverage and materially and adversely impact the Company’s financial condition. Bio-Hazard risks could cause the Company to incur substantial costs HemaCare’s operations involve the controlled use of bio-hazardous materials and chemicals. Although the Company believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed the resources of the Company and its insurance coverage. The Company may incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with environmental regulations as it develops and expands its business. Business interruption due to terrorism and increased security measures in response to terrorism could adversely impact profitability HemaCare’s business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce and freedom of movement for patients and donors. Delays or stoppages in the transportation of perishable blood products and interruptions of mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the Company may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security, as a result of terrorist activities and potential activities, which may target health care facilities or medical products. The Company may also experience delays in receiving payments from payers that have been impacted by terrorist activities and potential activities. The U.S. economy in general is adversely impacted by terrorist activities, and potential activities, and any economic downturn may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, impair its ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact its ability to grow its business. 11 Business interruption due to earthquakes could adversely impact profitability HemaCare’s principal operations, as well as the Company’s corporate headquarters, are located in Southern California, which is an area known for potentially destructive earthquakes. A severe event in this location could have a substantial negative impact on the ability of the Company to continue to operate. Any significant delay in resuming operations following such an event could cause a material adverse impact on the profitability of the Company. In addition, the Company’s insurance policies do not provide any coverage for damages as a result of an earthquake. Therefore, the Company would bear all of the costs incurred to resume operations after an earthquake and the Company may not have sufficient resources to do so. Evaluation and consideration of strategic alternatives, and other significant projects, may distract management from reacting appropriately to business challenges and lead to reduced profitability As a publicly traded Company, management must constantly evaluate and consider new strategic alternatives and other significant projects, in an attempt to maximize shareholder value. The Company does not possess a large management team that can both consider strategic alternatives and manage daily operations. Therefore, management distractions associated with the evaluation and consideration of strategic alternatives could prevent management from dedicating appropriate time to immediate business challenges or other significant business decisions. This may cause a material adverse impact on the future profitability of the Company. Articles of Incorporation and Rights Plan could delay or prevent an acquisition or sale of HemaCare HemaCare’s Articles of Incorporation empower the Board of Directors to establish and issue a class of preferred stock, and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock. This gives the Board of Directors the ability to deter, discourage or make more difficult a change in control of HemaCare, even if such a change in control would be in the interest of a significant number of shareholders or if such a change in control would provide shareholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price for the Company’s common stock. In addition, the Board of Directors has adopted a Shareholder’s Rights Plan designed to require a person or group interested in acquiring a significant or controlling interest in HemaCare to negotiate with the Board. Under the terms of the Company’s Shareholders’ Rights Plan, in general, if a person or group acquires more than 15% of the outstanding shares of common stock, all of the other shareholders would have the right to purchase securities from the Company at a discount to the fair market value of the common stock, causing substantial dilution to the acquiring person or group. The Shareholders’ Rights Plan may inhibit a change in control and, therefore, may materially adversely impact the shareholders’ ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the common stock in connection with such a transaction. Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and the Company may fail to meet investor expectations The Company’s quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and are likely to continue to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within the Company’s control. If quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results include the following: · changes in demand for the Company’s products and services, and the ability to obtain the required resources to satisfy customer demand; · ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products or services in a timely manner; · ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; · ability to control costs; and · ability to attract qualified platelet and research product donors. 12 The level of expenses incurred depends, in part, on the expectation for future revenue. In addition, since many expenses are fixed in the short term, the Company cannot significantly reduce expenses if there is a decline in revenue to avoid losses. Stocks traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are subject to greater market risks than those of exchange-traded stocks since they are less liquid HemaCare’s common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic, screen-based trading system operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board are, for the most part, thinly traded and generally are not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market or on another national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of the Company’s common stock or to obtain accurate price quotations. Stock price could be volatile The price of HemaCare’s common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by the Company or by the competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of HemaCare’s common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in HemaCare’s common stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. The market price of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, existing stockholders. Most of the Company’s outstanding shares are eligible for public resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Future sales of common stock by significant stockholders, including affiliates, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the price of the Company’s common stock. Future sales of equity securities could dilute the Company’s common stock The Company may seek new financing in the future through the sale of its securities. Future sales of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of the common stock currently outstanding. In addition, the perceived risk of dilution may cause some shareholders to sell their shares, which may further reduce the market price of the common stock. Lack of dividend payments could impact the price of the Company’s common stock The Company intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business, and therefore does not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will depend on the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends during the term of the agreement. 13 Ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited, resulting in income taxes sooner than currently anticipated As of December 31, 2011, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”) of approximately $7.5 million for federal income tax purposes that will begin to expire in 2012, and approximately $10.0 million for state income tax purposes that will begin to expire in 2017. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income, to the extent the Company generates any taxable income, and thereby reduces or eliminates future federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an ownership change as defined in Section 382. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percent over a three-year period. In the event that an ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of the Company’s NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the value of the Company’s stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. The Company could experience an ownership change under Section 382 as a result of events in the past in combination with events in the future. If so, the use of the Company’s NOLs, or a portion thereof, against future taxable income may be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, which may result in expiration of a portion of the NOLs before utilization. Therefore, the Company could be liable for income taxes sooner than otherwise would be true if the Company were not subject to Section 382 limitations. Use and disclosure of patient or donor information is subject to privacy and security regulations, which may result in increased costs While collecting platelets and research products from donors, or while performing therapeutic procedures for patients, the Company may collect, use, disclose, maintain and transmit patient information in ways that will be subject to many of the numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission and/or confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including the administrative simplification requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (“HIPAA”). The HIPAA Privacy Rule restricts the use and disclosure of patient information, and requires safeguarding that information. The HIPAA Security Rule establishes elaborate requirements for safeguarding patient information transmitted or stored electronically. HIPAA applies to covered entities, which may include healthcare facilities and does include hospitals that will contract for the use of the Company’s services. The HIPAA rules require covered entities to bind contractors like the Company to comply with certain burdensome HIPAA rule requirements known as business associate requirements. The Company may be required to make costly system purchases or system modifications, and make significant and burdensome changes to the Company’s policies and procedures in order to comply with the HIPAA rule requirements. Inappropriate disclosure of protected information may result in significant liability to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. In addition, other federal and state consumer protection laws may also apply to the Company’s collection, use, storage, and disclosure of other personal information of donors or patients. The Company’s efforts to adhere to these laws, or any failure to abide by these laws, may result in significant liability for the Company or increase the Company’s cost of doing business. Evaluation of internal control and remediation of potential problems will be costly and time consuming and could expose weaknesses in financial reporting The regulations implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require management to perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting beginning with its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. This process is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management. This process can reveal material weaknesses in internal controls that will require remediation. (See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” elsewhere in this report.) The remediation process may also be expensive and time consuming, and management can give no assurance that the remediation effort will be completed on time or be effective. In addition, management can give no assurance that additional material weaknesses in internal controls will not be discovered. Management also can give no assurance that the process of evaluation will be completed on time. The disclosure of a material weakness, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in the Company’s financial statements and harm the Company’s stock price, especially if a restatement of financial statements for past periods is required. 14 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 