Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur international operations are subject to many uncertainties, and a significant reduction in international sales of our products could adversely affect us.Our international operations are subject to various economic, political and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately 61%, 59% and 54%, respectively, of our sales were derived from sales outside the United States, and economic conditions in the countries and regions in which we operate significantly affect our profitability and growth prospects. The following risks, associated with doing business internationally, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations:•regional or country specific economic downturns;•fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the South African rand, Australian dollar, Chilean peso, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar, and British pound sterling;•complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including with respect to environmental matters, which may adversely affect our operations and ability to compete effectively in certain jurisdictions or regions;•international political and trade issues and tensions;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, up to and including the risk of nationalization or expropriation by foreign governments;•higher tax rates and potentially adverse tax consequences including restrictions on repatriating earnings, adverse tax withholding requirements and double taxation;•greater difficulties protecting our intellectual property;•increased risk of litigation and other disputes with customers;•fluctuations in our operating performance based on our geographic mix of sales;•longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•costs and difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing international operations, especially in rapidly growing economies such as China;•transportation delays and interruptions;•natural disasters and the greater difficulty in recovering from them in some of the foreign countries in which we operate, especially in countries prone to earthquakes, such as Chile, China, India and Indonesia;•uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations;•customs matters and changes in trade policy, tariff regulations or other trade restrictions; and•national and international conflicts, including terrorist acts.We expect that the percentage of our sales occurring outside the United States will increase over time largely due to increased activity in China, India and other emerging markets. The foregoing risks may be particularly acute in emerging markets, where our operations are subject to greater uncertainty due to increased volatility associated with the developing nature of the economic, legal and governmental systems of these countries. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our original equipment manufacturing business is highly sensitive to economic conditions in the mining industry, which can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results.Our business, in particular our original equipment manufacturing business, is materially affected by economic conditions affecting the global mining industry. The cyclicality of original equipment sales is driven primarily by volatility of commodity prices, including prices for coal, copper and iron ore, product life cycles, competitive pressures and other economic factors affecting the mining industry, such as company consolidation and increased regulation and competition affecting demand for commodities. Falling commodity prices have in the past and may in the future lead to reduced capital expenditures by our customers, reductions in the production levels of existing mines, a contraction in the number of existing mines and the closure of less efficient mines. Reduced capital expenditures and decreased mining activity by our customers are likely to lead to a decrease in demand for new mining machinery, as well as a decrease in demand for aftermarket parts and services as customers are likely to reduce inventories, redistribute parts from closed mines and delay rebuilds. As a result of this cyclicality, we have previously experienced fluctuation in our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect that cyclicality in our equipment manufacturing business may cause us to experience further significant fluctuation in our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are largely dependent on the continued demand for coal, which is subject to economic and climate related risks.Approximately 62% of our revenues come from our thermal and metallurgical coal-mining customers. Many of these customers supply coal for the generation of electricity and/or steel production. Demand for steel is affected by the global level of economic activity and economic growth. The pursuit of the most cost effective form of electricity generation continues to take 11Table of Contentsplace throughout the world and coal-fired electricity generation faces intense price competition from other fuel sources, particularly natural gas. Coal combustion generates significant greenhouse gas emissions and governmental and private sector goals and mandates to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may increasingly affect the mix of electricity generation sources. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or other limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts or costs from coal combustion, both in the United States and in other countries, could diminish demand for coal as a fuel for electricity generation. If lower greenhouse gas emitting forms of electricity generation, such as nuclear, solar, natural gas or wind power, become more prevalent or cost effective, or diminished economic activity reduces demand for steel, demand for coal will decline. Reduced demand for coal would result in reduced demand for our mining equipment and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our global operations are subject to extensive trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations.Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. regulations issued by Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in other countries. Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business and may result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition.We face risks from currency exchange rate fluctuations because our international operations are conducted in various local currencies, while our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars.Our significant foreign subsidiaries use local currencies as their functional currency. Because our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires that we translate the assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues of these subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the other countries in which we conduct business may affect our assets, earnings and cash flows. In addition, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the comparative prices between products we sell and products our foreign competitors sell in the same market, which may adversely affect demand for our equipment. Substantial exchange rate fluctuations, particularly due to strengthening of the U.S. dollar, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as the comparability of our consolidated financial statements between reporting periods. While we attempt to reduce the risks from exchange rate fluctuations by entering into hedging arrangements, these arrangements may not be effective or may only delay or temporarily mitigate the adverse effect of fluctuations in exchange rates.We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing.Our domestic and foreign manufacturing and service operations are subject to significant competitive pressures. We compete globally on the basis of product performance, customer service and aftermarket support, availability, reliability, productivity and price. Most of our customers are large global mining companies that have substantial bargaining power, and some of our sales require us to participate in competitive bidding where we must compete on the basis of various factors, including performance guarantees and price. We compete directly and indirectly with other manufacturers of surface and underground mining equipment and with manufacturers of parts and components for such products. Some of our competitors are larger than us and, as a result, may have broader product offerings and greater access to financial resources. Certain of our competitors also may pursue aggressive pricing or product strategies that may cause us to reduce the prices we charge for our original equipment and aftermarket products and services or lose sales. These actions may lead to reduced revenues, lower margins and/or a decline in market share, any of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may acquire businesses, dispose of businesses or engage in other transactions for which we may not realize anticipated benefits, or it may take longer than expected to realize such benefits, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business.12Table of ContentsFrom time to time, we may explore and pursue transaction opportunities that may complement our core businesses, and we may also consider divesting businesses or assets that we do not regard as part of our core businesses. These transaction opportunities may come in the form of acquisitions, joint ventures, start-ups or other structures. There are risks associated with acquisition and disposition of business transactions, including, without limitation, general business risk, integration risk, technology risk, market acceptance risk, litigation risk, environmental risk, regulatory approval risk and risks associated with the failure to close or consummate announced transactions. In the case of acquisitions, we may not be able to discover, during the due diligence process or otherwise, all known and unknown risks associated with the business we are acquiring. In the case of dispositions, we may agree to indemnify acquiring parties for known or unknown liabilities arising from our former businesses.Undiscovered factors may result in our incurring financial or other liabilities, which could be material. In addition, completion of a transaction may require us to incur debt, issue equity, utilize other capital resources, make expenditures, provide guarantees or indemnification and/or agree to other terms and may also consume a substantial portion of our management’s time and attention. These transactions may not ultimately create value for us or our stockholders, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs and may expose us to substantial liability if we fail to comply.We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air (including greenhouse gas) emissions, water discharges, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination and the generation, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. Some environmental laws impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of the release of hazardous substances, even for conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred, or for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators, predecessors or other third parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws could expose us to penalties or clean-up costs, civil or criminal liability and sanctions on certain of our activities, as well as damage to property or natural resources. These liabilities, sanctions, damages and remediation efforts related to any non-compliance with such laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our various prior and future acquisitions and divestitures may have resulted or could result in environmental liabilities unknown to us at the time of acquisition or divestiture or other additional environmental liabilities.Moreover, environmental laws and regulations, and the interpretation and enforcement thereof, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Future environmental laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with our business. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or product demand.Environmental regulations impacting the mining industry may adversely affect demand for our products.We supply original equipment and aftermarket services to mining companies operating in major mining regions throughout the world. Our customers’ operations are subject to or affected by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions where they operate, including those directly impacting mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws. In addition, new environmental legislation or administrative regulations relating to mining or affecting demand for mined materials, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require our customers to significantly change or curtail their operations. The high cost of compliance with environmental regulations may discourage our customers from expanding existing mines or developing new mines and may also cause customers to limit or even discontinue their mining operations. As a result of these factors, demand for our mining equipment and the aftermarket services we provide could be adversely affected by environmental regulations directly or indirectly impacting the mining industry. Any reduction in demand as a result of environmental regulations is likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We require cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance our business, and the terms of our debt agreements require us to comply with financial and other covenants.Our ability to service our indebtedness depends on our financial performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we might be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. There is no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, particularly if credit market conditions deteriorate. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions would be permitted by the terms of our credit agreements or debt instruments.Our existing credit agreements contain, and any future debt agreements we may enter into may contain, certain financial tests and other covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, acquire other businesses and impose various other restrictions. 13Table of ContentsOur ability to comply with financial tests may be adversely affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control, and these covenants may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. We cannot be certain that we will be able to comply with the financial tests and other covenants, or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers or amended terms from our lenders. An uncured default with respect to one or more of the covenants could result in the amounts outstanding under one or more of the agreements being declared immediately due and payable, which may also trigger an obligation to redeem our outstanding debt securities and repay all other outstanding indebtedness. Any such acceleration of our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.A downgrade to our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under our credit facility and adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.Our cost of borrowing under our unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on November 12, 2017 (the “Credit Agreement”) and our ability and the terms under which we may access the capital markets are affected by credit ratings assigned to our indebtedness by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are premised on our performance under assorted financial metrics, such as leverage and interest coverage ratios and other measures of financial strength, business and financial risk, industry conditions, transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. Our current ratings have served to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders. However, there can be no assurance that our credit ratings or outlook will not be lowered in the future in response to adverse changes in these metrics caused by our operating results or by actions that we take, such as incurring additional indebtedness or by returning excess cash to shareholders through dividends or under our share repurchase program. A downgrade of our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing under the Credit Agreement, negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets on advantageous terms, or at all, negatively affect the trading price of our securities and have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Significant changes in our actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates and other factors could affect our results of operations, equity and pension funding requirements in future periods.Our results of operations may be affected by the amount of income or expense that we record for our defined benefit pension plans and certain other retirement benefits. We measure the valuation of our pension plans annually as of our fiscal year end in order to determine the funded status of and our funding obligation with respect to such plans. This annual valuation of our pension plans is highly dependent on certain assumptions used in actuarial valuations, which include actual and expected return on pension assets and discount rates. These assumptions take into account current and expected financial market data, other economic conditions, such as interest rates and inflation, and other factors such as plan asset allocation and future salary increases. If actual rates of return on pension assets materially differ from assumptions, our pension funding obligations may increase or decrease significantly. Our funding obligation is determined under governmental regulations and is measured based on the value of our assets and liabilities. An adverse change in our funded status due to the volatility of returns on pension assets and the discount rate could increase our required future contributions to our plans, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We may record future goodwill impairment charges or other asset impairment charges, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. As of October 25, 2013, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $1.8 billion and represented approximately 31% of our total assets. We evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually in our fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. Because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed an impairment analysis of intangible assets and recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $155.2 million for trade name intangibles related to our rebranding strategy. If changes occur in the future that diverge from the assumptions and estimates used to calculate the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, or if our future performance or stock price declines, we may be required to record additional impairment charges, which could negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition.We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, 14Table of Contentschanges in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The results of audit and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, which cannot be assured.Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret law and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property. However, these measures may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce our intellectual property rights through infringement proceedings could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Demand for our products may be adversely impacted by regulations related to mine safety.Our principal customers are surface and underground mining companies. The mining industry has encountered increased scrutiny as it relates to safety regulations primarily due to recent high profile mining accidents. Current or proposed legislation and regulations on safety standards and the increased cost of compliance may induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations and may discourage companies from developing new mines, which in turn could diminish demand for our products.Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases, and we are also limited by our plant capacity constraints.In the manufacture of our products, we use large amounts of raw materials and processed inputs including steel, copper and engine and electronic components. We obtain raw materials and certain manufactured components from third party suppliers. Our ability to grow revenues is constrained by the capacity of our plants, our ability to supplement that capacity with outside sources and our success in securing critical raw materials such as steel and copper. To reduce material costs and inventories, we rely on supplier arrangements with preferred vendors as a source for “just in time” delivery of many raw materials and manufactured components. Because we maintain limited raw material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may adversely affect our ability to satisfy our customers on a timely basis and thereby affect our financial performance. If we are not able to pass raw material or component price increases on to our customers, our margins could be adversely affected. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Labor disputes and increasing labor costs could adversely affect us.Many of our principal domestic and foreign operating subsidiaries are parties to collective bargaining agreements with their employees. As of October 25, 2013, collective bargaining agreements or similar type arrangements cover 29% of our U.S. workforce and 20% of our international employees. We cannot provide assurance that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. In addition, when existing collective bargaining agreements expire, we cannot be certain that we will be able to reach new agreements with our employees. In fiscal 2014, union agreements are to expire for 10% of our employees, with the largest agreement covering the International Association of Machinists union at our Franklin, Pennsylvania facility. New collective bargaining agreements may be on substantially different terms and may result in increased direct and indirect labor costs. Future disputes with our employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.A material disruption to one of our significant manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue.We produce most of our original equipment and aftermarket parts for each product type at a limited number of principal manufacturing facilities. If operations at one or more of these significant facilities were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of some units. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until capacity is available.Our business could be adversely affected by our failure to develop new technologies.The mining industry is a capital-intensive business, with extensive planning and development necessary to open a new mine. The success of our customers’ mining projects is largely dependent on the efficiency with which the mine operates. If we are unable to provide continued technological improvements in our equipment that meet the needs and expectations of our customers and the broader industry on mine productivity, safety and efficiency, the demand for our mining equipment would be adversely affected which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.15Table of ContentsWe may be adversely affected by litigation or contractual obligations entered into in the ordinary course of our business.We and our subsidiaries are involved in various unresolved legal matters that arise in the normal course of operations, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including asbestos and silica related liability), employment and commercial matters. We and our subsidiaries also become involved from time to time in proceedings relating to environmental matters. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, our policies are subject to substantial deductibles. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate or that our policies will cover any particular loss. Insurance can be expensive, and we may not always be able to purchase insurance on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance (or for which our insurers refuse to provide coverage) or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Also, as a normal part of operations, our subsidiaries may undertake contractual obligations, warranties and guarantees in connection with the sale of products or services. Some of these claims and obligations involve significant potential liability, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, our growth may be hindered.Our ability to provide high quality products and services depends in part on our ability to hire and retain skilled personnel in the areas of senior management, product engineering, manufacturing, servicing and sales. Competition for such personnel is intense and our competitors and others can be expected to attempt to hire our skilled employees from time to time. In particular, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain customer relationships and technical expertise provided by our management team and our professional personnel.We rely on significant customers, the loss of one or more of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business.We are dependent on maintaining significant customers by delivering reliable, high performance mining equipment and other products on a timely basis. We do not consider ourselves to be dependent upon any single customer; however, our top ten customers collectively accounted for approximately 43% of our sales for fiscal 2013. Our sales have become more concentrated in recent years as consolidation has occurred in the mining industry. Consolidation and divestitures in the mining industry may result in different equipment preferences among current and former significant customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could, at least on a short-term basis, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services.We rely on information technology ("IT") systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, and we collect and store sensitive data. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. A failure of or breach in security could expose us and our customers, dealers and suppliers to risks of misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations. In addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures.Regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses.In August 2012, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, as required by Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The new rule, which went into effect for calendar year 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed with the SEC by May 31, 2014, requires us to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not “conflict minerals,” which are defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, necessary to the functionality of a product we manufacture originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. Our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source and custody of any “conflict minerals” necessary to the functionality of our equipment. We may also face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our equipment, or if we are unable to certify that our products are “conflict free.” Implementation of this rulemaking may also affect the sourcing, price and availability of some minerals necessary to the manufacture of our products, and may affect the availability and price of conflict minerals capable of certification as “conflict-free.” In addition, in the future we may be required to comply with similar regulatory initiatives in other jurisdictions, which could present the same or additional challenges and result in additional compliance costs. Accordingly, we may incur significant costs as a consequence of regulations related to conflict-free minerals, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.