Item 1A. Risk Factors Our international operations are subject to many uncertainties, and a significant reduction in international sales of our products could adversely affect us. In addition to the other risk factors below, our international operations are subject to various political, economic and other uncertainties which could adversely affect our business. A significant reduction of our international business due to any of these risks would adversely affect our sales. In Fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 51%, 55% and 54% of our sales were derived from sales outside the United States. Risks faced by our international operations include: Page 11 • international political and trade issues and tensions; • regional or country specific economic downturns, such as the Asian financial crisis that began in 1997; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Brazilian real, Chilean peso, Canadian dollar and South African rand; • increased risk of litigation and other disputes with customers, such as the recently resolved disputes with Sokolovskaya Investment Company and the government of Egypt; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, such as the possibility of new Black Economic Empowerment requirements in South Africa; • higher tax rates and potentially adverse tax consequences including restrictions on repatriating earnings, adverse tax withholding requirements and double taxation; • difficulties protecting our intellectual property; • longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • costs and difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing international operations, especially in rapidly growing economies such as China; • transportation delays and interruptions; • natural disasters and the greater difficulty in recovering from them as compared to the United States in some of the foreign countries in which we operate, especially in countries prone to earthquakes, such as Indonesia, India, China and Chile; • uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations; and • customs matters and changes in trade policy or tariff regulations. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations internationally, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The cyclical nature of our original equipment manufacturing business could cause fluctuations in our operating results. Our business, in particular our original equipment manufacturing business, is cyclical in nature. The cyclicality of Joy’s original equipment sales is driven primarily by commodity prices, product life cycles, competitive pressures and other economic factors affecting the mining industry such as company consolidation. P&H’s original equipment sales are subject to cyclical movements based in large part on changes in copper, coal, iron ore, oil and other commodity prices. Falling commodity prices have in the past and may in the future lead to reductions in the production levels of existing mines, a contraction in the number of existing mines and the closure of less efficient mines. Decreased mining activity is likely to lead to a decrease in demand for new mining machinery. We expect that cyclicality will likely cause us to experience further significant fluctuation in our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. As a result of this cyclicality, we have previously experienced significant fluctuation in our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since emerging from bankruptcy in 2001, our operating income has ranged from an operating loss of $14.1 million in Fiscal 2002 (which included $53.6 million in fresh start accounting charges) to operating income of $442.4 million in Fiscal 2006, and our net sales have ranged from a low of $1.1 billion for Fiscal 2002 to a high of $2.4 billion for Fiscal 2006. Page 12 Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret law and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property. However, these measures may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce our intellectual property rights through infringement proceedings could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases, and we are also limited by our plant capacity constraints. In the manufacture of our products, we use large amounts of raw materials and processed inputs including steel, engine components, copper and electronic controls. We obtain raw materials and certain manufactured components from third party suppliers. Our ability to grow revenues is constrained by the capacity of our plants, our ability to supplement that capacity with outside sources, and our success in securing critical supplies such as steel and copper. To reduce material costs and inventories, we rely on supplier arrangements with preferred vendors as a source for “just in time” delivery of many raw materials and manufactured components. Because we maintain limited raw material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies or other natural disasters, may adversely affect our ability to satisfy our customers on a timely basis and thereby affect our financial performance. This risk increases as we continue to change our manufacturing model to more closely align production with customer orders. In addition, recently, market prices of some of the raw materials we use, in particular steel, have increased significantly. If we are not able to pass raw material or component price increases on to our customers, our margins could be adversely affected. In fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, we instituted price increases to offset, in part, the impact of higher steel prices. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain these price increases. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing. Our domestic and foreign manufacturing and service operations are subject to significant competitive pressures. Many of our customers are large global mining companies that have substantial bargaining power and require our equipment to meet high standards of availability, productivity and cost effectiveness. In addition, some of our sales require us to participate in competitive tenders where we must compete on the basis of various factors, including performance guarantees and price. We compete directly and indirectly with other manufacturers of surface and underground mining equipment and with manufacturers of parts and components for such products. Some of our competitors are larger and may have greater access to financial resources. Demand for our products may be adversely impacted by regulations affecting the mining industry or electric utilities. Our principal customers are surface and underground mining companies. Many of these customers supply coal as a power generating source for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. The operations of these mining companies are geographically diverse and are subject to or impacted by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions where they operate, including those directly impacting mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws and an array of regulations governing the operation of electric utilities. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the operation of mines, our customers’ mining operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. The high cost of compliance with mining and environmental regulations may also induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines. Additionally, government regulation of electric utilities may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause electric utilities to select alternative energy sources and technologies as a source of electric power. As a result of these factors, demand for our mining equipment could be substantially affected by regulations adversely impacting the mining industry or altering the consumption patterns of electric utilities. Page 13 Labor disputes and increasing labor costs could adversely affect us. Many of our principal domestic and foreign operating subsidiaries are parties to collective bargaining agreements with their employees. We cannot assure you that any disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. In addition, when existing collective bargaining agreements expire, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reach new agreements with our employees. Such new agreements may be on substantially different terms and may result in increased direct and indirect labor costs. Future disputes with our employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by our failure to develop new technologies. The mining industry is a capital-intensive business, with extensive planning and development necessary to open a new mine. The success of our customers’ mining projects is largely dependent on the efficiency with which the mine operates. If we are unable to provide continued technological improvements in our equipment that meets our customers’ expectations, or the industry’s expectations, on mine productivity, the demand for our mining equipment could be substantially affected. We are largely dependent on the continued demand for coal. Over two-thirds of our revenues come from our coal-mining customers. Many of these customers supply coal as fuel for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. The pursuit of the most cost effective form of electricity generation continues to take place throughout the world. If a more economical form of electricity generation is discovered or developed or if a current alternative source of energy such as nuclear power becomes more widely accepted or cost effective, the demand for our mining equipment could be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation risk, which could adversely affect us. We and our subsidiaries are involved in various unresolved legal matters that arise in the normal course of operations, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including asbestos related and silicosis liability), employment and commercial matters. In addition, we and our subsidiaries become involved from time to time in proceedings relating to environmental matters. Also, as a normal part of their operations, our subsidiaries may undertake contractual obligations, warranties and guarantees in connection with the sale of products or services. Some of these claims and obligations involve significant potential liability. Product liability claims could adversely affect us. The sale of mining equipment entails an inherent risk of product liability and other claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance covering certain types of claims, our policies are subject to substantial deductibles. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate or that our policies will cover any particular loss. Insurance can be expensive, and we may not always be able to purchase insurance on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to retain qualified employees, our growth may be hindered. Our ability to provide high quality products and services depends in part on our ability to retain our skilled personnel in the areas of senior management, product engineering, servicing and sales. Competition for such personnel is intense and our competitors can be expected to attempt to hire our skilled employees from time to time. In particular, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain the customer relationships and technical expertise provided by our management team and our professional personnel. Page 14 We rely on significant customers. We are dependent on maintaining significant customers by delivering reliable, high performance mining equipment and other products on a timely basis. We do not consider ourselves to be dependent upon any single customer; however, our top ten customers collectively accounted for approximately 30% of our sales for the 2006 fiscal year. Our sales have become more concentrated in recent years as consolidation has occurred in the mining industry. The consolidation and divestitures in the mining industry may result in different equipment preferences among current and former significant customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could, at least on a short term basis, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may acquire other businesses or engage in other transactions, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business. From time to time, we explore transaction opportunities which may complement our core business. These transaction opportunities may come in the form of an acquisition, joint venture, start up or other structure. Any such transaction may entail any number of risk factors including (without limitation) general business risk, integration risk, technology risk and market acceptance risk. Additionally, any such transaction may require utilization of debt, equity or other capital resources and our management’s time and attention, and may not create value for us or our stockholders. We require cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance our business. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we might be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. There is no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments. Our unsecured revolving credit agreement contains certain financial tests. If we do not satisfy such tests, our lenders could declare a default under our debt instruments, and our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our unsecured revolving credit agreement may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. Our unsecured revolving credit agreement contains covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, acquire other businesses and imposes various other restrictions. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the foregoing financial ratios or covenants or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 15 