Item 1A. Risk Factors Our international operations are subject to many uncertainties, and a significant reduction in international sales of our products could adversely affect us. In addition to the other risk factors below, our international operations are subject to various political, economic, and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. A significant reduction of our international business due to any of these risks would adversely affect our sales. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, approximately 56%, 50%, and 52%, respectively of our sales were derived from sales outside the United States. Risks faced by our international operations include: · international political and trade issues and tensions; · regional or country specific economic downturns; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Chilean peso, Chinese renminbi, and South African rand; · complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, which may adversely affect our operations and ability to compete effectively in certain jurisdictions or regions; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, up to and including the risk of nationalization or expropriation by foreign governments; · higher tax rates and potentially adverse tax consequences including restrictions on repatriating earnings, adverse tax withholding requirements, and double taxation; · difficulties protecting our intellectual property; · increased risk of litigation and other disputes with customers; · longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · costs and difficulties in integrating, staffing and managing international operations, especially in rapidly growing economies such as China; · transportation delays and interruptions; Page 12 Index · natural disasters and the greater difficulty in recovering from them as compared to the United States in some of the foreign countries in which we operate, especially in countries prone to earthquakes, such as Indonesia, India, China, and Chile; · uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations; and · custom matters and changes in trade policy or tariff regulations. We expect that the percentage of our sales occurring outside the United States will increase over time largely due to increased activity in China, India, and other emerging markets. The foregoing risks may be particularly acute in emerging markets, where our operations are subject to greater uncertainty due to increased volatility associated with the developing nature of the economic, legal, and governmental systems of these countries. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with expanding our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The cyclical nature of our original equipment manufacturing business could cause fluctuations in our operating results. Our business, in particular our original equipment manufacturing business, is cyclical in nature. The cyclicality of Joy’s original equipment sales is driven primarily by commodity prices, product life cycles, competitive pressures, and other economic factors affecting the mining industry such as company consolidation. P&H’s original equipment sales are subject to cyclical movements based in large part on changes in coal, copper, iron ore, oil, and other commodity prices. Falling commodity prices have in the past and may in the future lead to reductions in the production levels of existing mines, a contraction in the number of existing mines, and the closure of less efficient mines. Decreased mining activity is likely to lead to a decrease in demand for new mining machinery.& #160; As a result of this cyclicality, we have previously experienced significant fluctuation in our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We expect that cyclicality in our equipment manufacturing business may cause us to experience further significant fluctuation in our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing. Our domestic and foreign manufacturing and service operations are subject to significant competitive pressures. We compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, availability, reliability, productivity, and price. Many of our customers are large global mining companies that have substantial bargaining power, and some of our sales require us to participate in competitive tenders where we must compete on the basis of various factors, including performance guarantees and price. We compete directly and indirectly with other manufacturers of surface and underground mining equipment and with manufacturers of parts and components for such products. Some of our competitors are larger than us and, as a result, may have broader product offerings and greater access to financial resources. 60;As a result, certain of our competitors may pursue aggressive pricing or product strategies that may cause us to lose sales or reduce the prices we charge for our original equipment and aftermarket products and services. These actions may lead to reduced revenues, lower margins, and/or a decline in market share, any of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are largely dependent on the continued demand for coal, which is subject to economic and climate related risks. Over two-thirds of our revenues come from our coal-mining customers. Many of these customers supply coal for steel production and/or as fuel for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. Demand for steel is affected by the global level of economic activity and economic growth. The pursuit of the most cost effective form of electricity generation continues to take place throughout the world. Coal combustion generates significant greenhouse gas emissions and governmental and private sector goals and mandates to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may increasingly affect the mix of electricity generation sources. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or ot her limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts or costs from coal combustion, both in the United States and in other countries, could diminish demand for coal as a fuel for electricity generation. If lower greenhouse gas emitting forms of electricity generation, such as nuclear, solar, natural gas or wind power, become more prevalent or cost effective, or diminished economic activity reduces demand for steel, demand for coal will be reduced. When demand for coal is reduced, the demand for our mining equipment could be adversely affected, Page 13 Index We require cash to service our indebtedness, which reduces the cash available to finance our business. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory, and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we might be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. There is no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, particularly if credit market conditions worsen. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that refinancings or asset dispositions would be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments. Our unsecured revolving credit agreement contains certain financial tests. If we do not satisfy such tests, our lenders could declare a default under our debt instruments, and our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our unsecured revolving credit agreement may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. Our unsecured revolving credit agreement contains covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, acquire other businesses and impose various other restrictions. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. We cannot be certain that we will be able to comply with the foregoing financial ratios or covenants or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders. Significant changes in our actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates and other factors could affect our results of operations, equity and pension funding requirements in future periods. Our results of operations may be affected by the amount of income or expense that we record for our defined benefit pension plans and certain other retirement benefits. We measure the valuation of our pension plans annually as of our fiscal year end in order to determine the funded status of and our funding obligation with respect to such plans. This annual valuation of our pension plans is highly dependent on certain assumptions used in actuarial valuations, which include actual and expected return on pension assets and discount rates. These assumptions take into account current and expected financial market data, other economic conditions such as interest rates and inflation, and other factors such as plan asset allocation and future salary increases. If actual rates of return on pension a ssets materially differ from assumptions, our pension funding obligations may increase or decrease significantly. Our funding obligation is determined under governmental regulations and is measured based on value of our assets and liabilities. An adverse change in our funded status due to the volatility of returns on pension assets and the discount rate could increase our required future contributions to our plans, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For a more detailed discussion regarding how our financial statements may be affected by pension and other retirement plan accounting policies, see “Critical Accounting Policies - Pension and Postretirement Benefits and Costs” on page 33 within Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, which cannot be assured. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements and other contractual arrangements and trade secret law and, to a lesser extent, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property. However, these measures may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce our intellectual property rights through infringement proceedings could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Page 14 Index Demand for our products may be adversely impacted by regulations related to mine safety. Our principal customers are surface and underground mining companies. The mining industry has encountered increased scrutiny as it relates to safety regulations primarily due to recent high profile mine accidents. Current or proposed legislation on safety standards and the increased cost of compliance may induce customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines, which in turn could diminish demand for our products. Demand for our products may be adversely impacted by environmental regulations impacting the mining industry or electric utilities. Many of our customers supply coal as a power generating source for the production of electricity in the United States and other countries. The operations of these mining companies are geographically diverse and are subject to or impacted by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions where they operate, including those directly impacting mining activities and those indirectly affecting their businesses, such as applicable environmental laws. The high cost of compliance with environmental regulations may also cause customers to discontinue or limit their mining operations, and may discourage companies from developing new mines. Additionally, government regulation of electric utilities may adversely impact the demand for coal to the extent that such regulations cause electric utilities to select alt ernative energy sources, such as natural gas, and renewable energy technologies as a source of electric power. As a result of these factors, demand for our mining equipment could be adversely affected by environmental regulations impacting the mining industry or altering the consumption patterns of electric utilities. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price increases, and we are also limited by our plant capacity constraints. In the manufacture of our products, we use large amounts of raw materials and processed inputs including steel, engine components, copper and electronic controls. We obtain raw materials and certain manufactured components from third party suppliers. Our ability to grow revenues is constrained by the capacity of our plants, our ability to supplement that capacity with outside sources, and our success in securing critical supplies such as steel and copper. To reduce material costs and inventories, we rely on supplier arrangements with preferred vendors as a source for “just in time” delivery of many raw materials and manufactured components. Because we maintain limited raw material and component inventories, even brief unanticipated delays in delivery by suppliers, including those due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, impaired financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies, or other natural disasters, may adversely affect our ability to satisfy our customers on a timely basis and thereby affect our financial performance. This risk increases as we continue to change our manufacturing model to more closely align production with customer orders. If we are not able to pass raw material or component price increases on to our customers, our margins could be adversely affected. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Labor disputes and increasing labor costs could adversely affect us. Many of our principal domestic and foreign operating subsidiaries are parties to collective bargaining agreements with their employees. Collective bargaining agreements or similar type arrangements cover 37% of our U.S. workforce and 30% of our international employees. In 2011, collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire for 3% of our employees. As such, we cannot provide assurance that disputes, work stoppages, or strikes will not arise in the future. In addition, when existing collective bargaining agreements expire, we cannot be certain that we will be able to reach new agreements with our employees. Such new agreements may be on substantially different terms and may result in increased di rect and indirect labor costs. Future disputes with our employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Page 15 Index A material disruption to one of our significant manufacturing plants could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We produce most of our original equipment and aftermarket parts for each product type at a limited number of principal manufacturing facilities. If operations at one or more of these significant facilities were to be disrupted as a result of equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages or other reasons, our business, financial conditions, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions in production could increase costs and delay delivery of some units. Production capacity limits could cause us to reduce or delay sales efforts until capacity is available. Our business could be adversely affected by our failure to develop new technologies. The mining industry is a capital-intensive business, with extensive planning and development necessary to open a new mine. The success of our customers’ mining projects is largely dependent on the efficiency with which the mine operates. If we are unable to provide continued technological improvements in our equipment that meet our customers’ expectations, or the industry’s expectations, on mine productivity, the demand for our mining equipment could be substantially adversely affected. We are subject to litigation risk, which could adversely affect us. We and our subsidiaries are involved in various unresolved legal matters that arise in the normal course of operations, the most prevalent of which relate to product liability (including asbestos and silica related liability), employment, and commercial matters. In addition, we and our subsidiaries become involved from time to time in proceedings relating to environmental matters. Also, as a normal part of their operations, our subsidiaries may undertake contractual obligations, warranties, and guarantees in connection with the sale of products or services. Some of these claims and obligations involve significant potential liability. Product liability claims could adversely affect us. The sale of mining equipment entails an inherent risk of product liability and other claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance covering certain types of claims, our policies are subject to substantial deductibles. We cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate or that our policies will cover any particular loss. Insurance can be expensive, and we may not always be able to purchase insurance on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we are unable to retain qualified employees, our growth may be hindered. Our ability to provide high quality products and services depends in part on our ability to retain skilled personnel in the areas of senior management, product engineering, servicing, and sales. Competition for such personnel is intense and our competitors can be expected to attempt to hire our skilled employees from time to time. In particular, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain customer relationships and technical expertise provided by our management team and our professional personnel. We rely on significant customers, the loss of one or more of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business. We are dependent on maintaining significant customers by delivering reliable, high performance mining equipment and other products on a timely basis. We do not consider ourselves to be dependent upon any single customer; however, our top ten customers collectively accounted for approximately 34% of our sales for 2010. Our sales have become more concentrated in recent years as consolidation has occurred in the mining industry. The consolidation and divestitures in the mining industry may result in different equipment preferences among current and former significant customers. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could, at least on a short- term basis, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Page 16 Index We may acquire other businesses or engage in other transactions, which may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and existing business. From time to time, we explore transaction opportunities which may complement our core business. These transaction opportunities may come in the form of acquisitions, joint ventures, start ups or other structures. Any such transaction may entail any number of risk factors including (without limitation) general business risk, integration risk, technology risk, and market acceptance risk. Additionally, any such transaction may require utilization of debt, equity or other capital resources or expenditures and our management’s time and attention, and may not create value for us or our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 17 Index 