ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Our success is dependent on continued revenue growth from newer product families. SGI has a strong history of introducing new products to our Altix family of servers and superclusters. In fiscal 2007 we introduced the Altix XE family of cluster products, as well as Altix ICE, the first HPC engineered cluster product. We have momentum in the cluster market, which we need to sustain to generate revenue and support our growth objectives, while continuing to achieve revenue objectives for Altix servers. We must also diversify our product mix to appeal to a broader customer base, increase revenue, and better manage our gross margin. Risks associated with all these products include dependence on Intel in terms of price, supply, dependability, performance, product roadmaps and timely access to design specifications, and continued support for and development of the Itanium 2 and Intel Xeon processor families; the availability of Linux applications optimized for the 64-bit Itanium platform and our scalable systems architecture; acceptance of the Linux operating system in demanding environments; and competition from other suppliers of Intel-based servers, including clusters of low-end servers. Cluster products are an important competitive factor in the high performance server market. Future revenue growth from our cluster products and a more diversified product mix is important because revenues from our traditional MIPS and IRIX products and maintenance business are expected to continue to decline. Our ability to achieve future revenue and growth objectives will depend significantly on the diversity and market success of our cluster products. We experience fluctuations in our cash consumption for a variety of reasons, which could adversely affect our availability of cash. The Predecessor Company incurred net losses and negative cash flows from operations resulting from year over year declines in revenue during each of the past several fiscal years. We experience significant intra-quarter fluctuations in our cash levels, with the result that our cash balances are generally at their highest point at the end of each quarter and significantly lower at other times. These intra-quarter fluctuations reflect our business cycle, with significant requirements for inventory purchases in the early part of the quarter and most sales closing in the last few weeks of the quarter. To maintain adequate levels of unrestricted cash within each quarter, we offer certain customers discounted terms for early payment and hold certain vendor 11 Table of Contents payments to the beginning of the following quarter. We also continue to focus on expense controls, revenue growth and improvements in margins and operating efficiencies. It is essential to our operating plans for fiscal 2008 that we maintain control over costs, complete acceptance on key customer obligations and meet our financing arrangement obligations. Even if we are able to implement these various initiatives, they ultimately may not be successful. We are dependent on sales to or funded by the U.S. government. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales to the U.S. government, either directly by us, through system integrators and other resellers or to entities who receive their funding from the government. Sales to the government present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruptions due to changes in appropriation and spending patterns. Our U.S. government business is also highly sensitive to changes in the U.S. government's national and international priorities and budgeting. The continuing war on terrorism may affect funding for our programs or result in changes in government programs or spending priorities that may adversely affect our business. In addition, the U.S. government can typically terminate or modify its contracts with us at any time for its convenience. Our government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other requirements. Failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Any disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with the U.S. government could have an adverse impact on us. A portion of our business requires security clearances from the U.S. government. These arrangements are subject to periodic review by customer agencies and the Defense Security Service of the Department of Defense. We may not be able to raise additional capital in the future. In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing to fund our business or repay our debt, and there can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, if funds are raised by incurring further debt, our operations and finances may become subject to further restrictions and we may be required to limit our service or product development activities or other operations, or otherwise modify our business strategy. If we fail to comply with financial or other covenants required in connection with such a financing, our creditors may be able to exercise remedies that could substantially impair our ability to operate. In addition, if we obtain additional funds by selling any of our equity securities or if we issue equity derivative securities in connection with obtaining debt financing, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution, or the equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the common stock. We may not achieve our operating goals and, as a result, may not be in compliance with debt covenants. As of June 29, 2007, we had a financing facility that provides up to $115 million of financing consisting of an $85 million term loan from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and a $30 million line of credit from General Electric Capital Corporation. Under the terms of this facility, we are required to comply with certain covenants. In fiscal year 2007, we have been in compliance with these covenants. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance in the future. In the event that we default under the financing agreement, it could be terminated and there can be no assurance that sufficient alternative financing arrangements will be available. Furthermore, in the event that cash flows, together with available borrowings under the financing or alternative financing arrangements, are not sufficient to meet the Company’s cash requirements, we may be required to reduce planned capital expenditures, sell additional assets or seek other sources of capital. We can provide no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to cover any cash shortfalls. The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry. 12 Table of Contents On September 11, 2007, the lenders under our $85 million term loan facility, including Quadrangle Master Funding Ltd and Watershed Technology Holdings, LLC, or their affiliates, which are significant stockholders of SGI, purchased and assumed the position of General Electric Capital Corporation (“GE”) under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (the “Agreement”), and substituted themselves as the lenders under the $30 million line of credit provided in the Agreement. On the same day, we entered into a Second Amendment to the Agreement (the “Second Amendment”) with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. The Second Amendment reduces the total revolver capacity to $20 million, for a total borrowing capacity of $105 million when combined with the $85 million term loan provided under the Agreement. See Note 27 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. Our financial results have been and will continue to be affected by the adoption of fresh-start accounting and do not reflect historical trends. Our emergence from Chapter 11 proceedings on the Emergence Date resulted in a new reporting entity and adoption of fresh-start accounting in accordance with Statement of Position (“SOP”) 90-7 Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code. As required by fresh-start accounting, our assets and liabilities have been adjusted to fair value, and certain assets and liabilities not previously recognized in our financial statements have been recognized under fresh-start accounting. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations from and after September 29, 2006 are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in the historical condensed consolidated financial statements of the Predecessor Company and a reader may not understand the actual trends in our business due to the impact of fresh-start accounting. For further information about fresh-start accounting, see Note 4, “Fresh-Start Reporting”, in Part II, Item 8. Our product strategy and business would be adversely affected by any delay, discontinuance or decreased competitiveness of the microprocessors we use. Our core products are based on system architectures that have been developed by working closely with partners for optimization on our products. Our product strategy and business depend on the continued availability, reliability and competitiveness of the microprocessors that we use and would be adversely affected by any further delays and/or discontinuance of these processor families. In addition, we may incur penalties under long-term contracts that require the delivery of future products. It is also important to our competitive position that our chosen microprocessors be competitive in quality and performance as well as price. Microprocessor technology changes rapidly, and in order to be competitive we must keep pace with those changes. Although we have taken steps with the introduction of new products to mitigate our dependence on a single microprocessor, the transition will take some time, and the migration may be expensive and time consuming. We depend on the continued availability and consistent cost of commodity components. Our strategy of developing system products based on industry-standard technologies has increased our technical dependence on Intel and other key suppliers. It is therefore important that we receive appropriate development cooperation from our suppliers, and that the products from these suppliers continue to evolve in ways that support the differentiation that we seek to bring to our products. Also, any delay or interruption in the supply of components could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, harm our reputation and cause a reduction in our revenue. Any increase in the cost of the components that we use in our products could make our products less competitive and lower our margins. In addition, our key suppliers could enter into exclusive agreements with, or acquire or be acquired by, one of our competitors, increase their prices, refuse to sell their products to us, discontinue products or go out of business. Even to the extent alternative suppliers are available to us and their components are qualified with our customers on a timely basis, identifying them and entering into arrangements with them may be difficult and time consuming, and they may not meet our quality standards. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of required components on the same or substantially the same terms. 13 Table of Contents Our dependence on sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on both single source and sole source suppliers for many of the components we use in our products. For example, we currently utilize microprocessors from a sole source supplier in our SGI Altix family of servers and superclusters and have designed our system architecture to optimize performance using their processors. If we were to utilize an alternative microprocessor, the transition would require an alternative design, which would be costly and cause significant delays in the development of future products, adversely affecting our business and operating results. Our business is also dependent on our ability to anticipate customer demand, our needs for components and products and our suppliers’ ability to deliver such components and products in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. Our business could be adversely affected, for example, if we fail to accurately predict customer demand, if suppliers fail to meet product release schedules, if we experience supply constraints, if we fail to negotiate favorable pricing or if we experience any other interruption or delay in the supply chain that interferes with our ability to manufacture our products or manage our inventory levels. Risks also include limited bargaining flexibility, the possibility of charges for excess and obsolete inventory and risks involved with end-of-life buys from single source and sole source suppliers, especially for custom materials. This material is planned to cover market demand through fiscal 2009. We are currently focused on maximizing our working capital by working closely with our suppliers and tightly managing our overall supply chain. We must attract, retain, and motivate employees and our failure to do so could harm our operations and strategies. Our employees are vital to our success. We must retain and motivate our current core of experienced employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals. Our employees are difficult to replace due to their expertise and intense competition for experienced employees in our industry. In addition, we must recruit employees with new skills to execute new strategy initiatives. Failure to retain our employees could lead to increased recruiting and training expenses and a decrease in productivity. Failure to attract new employees could lead to delay in executing new business strategies. We are operating under new leadership that may cause strategic and operational changes in our business. On April 9, 2007, we named Mr. Ewald our new Chief Executive Officer. Various other members of our management team and other key employees have also recently joined the Company. While these leadership changes are designed to enable us to return to growth and profitability, there can also be no assurance that any such changes will achieve the desired results in the required timeframe or favorably affect our financial conditions and results. We must maintain strong financial controls in an increasingly complex operating environment. Maintaining the financial controls of the Company has become increasingly complex due to the constant evolution in accounting principles and changes to disclosure laws. Our business has also become more complicated with the implementation of fresh-start accounting, and implementing and monitoring the appropriate controls is more complicated. While the Company has a strong control environment, managing these factors in a cost effective manner can be challenging. In view of this, we have identified an isolated situation that is a material control weakness. Specifically the Company did not have an adequate process in place to account for income taxes related to fresh-start accounting. While this could decrease investor and business confidence in the Company, we are implementing changes to respond to this matter on an immediate and long-term basis. A small number of stockholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock. A significant portion of our outstanding common stock is held by a small number of institutions. Due to the relatively low trading volume in our stock, a decision by any of these institutional investors to sell all or a portion of their holdings could cause our stock price to drop significantly, or cause significant volatility in our stock price. For example, conflicts of interests may arise in the future with our institutional investors who may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or 14 Table of Contents indirectly with us. As a result, the institutional investor might sell our stock, causing volatility in the stock price. Our products may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet our customers’ performance criteria, which could cause us to incur significant repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, and reduce our revenues and profitability. We may experience manufacturing and/or component quality problems with our products that may require that we replace components in some products, or replace the product, in accordance with our product warranties. Our product warranties typically last up to three years. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products under our product warranties, incurring significant expenses as a result. Further, our customers may discover latent defects in our products that were not apparent when the warranty period expired. These defects may cause us to incur significant repair or replacement expenses beyond the normal warranty period. In addition, any component, manufacturing or design defect could cause us to lose customers or revenues or damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. Our bankruptcy reorganization may negatively impact our future operations and the operations of our subsidiaries. In October 2006 we completed a bankruptcy reorganization that may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations. The publicity surrounding our bankruptcy reorganization might also adversely affect the businesses of our non-debtor subsidiaries. Because our business is closely related to the businesses of all of our subsidiaries, any downturn in the business of our subsidiaries could also affect our prospects. It remains uncertain whether our recently completed bankruptcy reorganization and the associated risks will adversely affect the businesses of any of our subsidiaries in the future. We expect our operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate for a number of reasons from period to period. Decreases in revenue can arise from any number of factors, including decreased demand, supply constraints, delays in the availability of new products, transit interruptions, overall economic conditions, competitive factors, military or terrorist actions, or natural disasters. Demand can also be adversely affected by concerns specifically associated with our financial health and by product and technology transition announcements by us or our competitors. The timing of customer acceptance of certain large-scale server products may also have a significant effect on periodic operating results. Margins are heavily influenced by revenue levels, mix considerations, including geographic concentrations, the mix of product and service revenue, industry price trends, competitive pricing pressures and the mix of server and desktop product revenue as well as the mix of configurations within these product categories. Our typical concentration of sales at the end of our fiscal quarters makes period-to-period financial results less predictable. Over half of each quarter’s product revenue results from orders booked and shipped during the third month, and disproportionately in the latter half of that month. This makes the forecasting of revenue inherently uncertain and can produce pressure on our internal infrastructure during the third month of a quarter. Because we plan our operating expenses, many of which are relatively fixed in the short term, on expected revenue, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a period’s results to be substantially below expectations. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis. Meeting our objectives for the future will require that our recently introduced products achieve success in the marketplace and that we succeed in the timely development and introduction of more successful new products. Product transitions are a recurring part of our business. A number of risks are inherent in this process. The development of new technology and products is increasingly complex and uncertain, which increases the risk of delays. The introduction of new computer systems requires close collaboration 15 Table of Contents and continued technological advancement involving multiple hardware and software design teams, internal manufacturing teams, outside suppliers of key components, such as semiconductors, and outsource manufacturing partners. The failure of any one of these elements could cause our products under development to fail to meet specifications or to miss the aggressive timetables that we establish. Development or acceptance of our new systems may be affected by delays in this process. In addition, from time to time we receive co-funding for certain development efforts and reduction or elimination of such funding could adversely affect the development and introduction of new systems. Short product life cycles place a premium on our ability to manage the transition to new products. Our results could be adversely affected by such factors as development delays, the release of products to manufacturing late in any quarter, quality or yield problems experienced by suppliers, variations in product costs and excess inventories of older products and components. In addition, some customers may delay purchasing existing products in anticipation of new product introductions. Products are often upgraded during their product life cycle. The ability to upgrade products in a timely fashion is necessary to compete in the computer industry. Delay in introducing updates and upgrades can adversely affect acceptance and demand for product. We may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We do receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other rights covering our products and technologies. Based upon our evaluation, we may take no action or may seek to obtain a license. We are in discussions with parties regarding the potential use of our patents, which may result in licensing fees, royalties or a one-time settlement. If negotiations are not successful, we may need to litigate. If we were to litigate, we could incur significant costs and we might not prevail in our case. In any given case there is a risk that a license will not be available on terms that we consider reasonable, or that litigation will ensue. We expect that, as the number of hardware and software patents issued continues to increase, and as competition in the markets we address intensifies, the volume of these intellectual property claims will also increase. In addition, our growing visibility as a supplier of Linux-based systems and as a participant in the open source software community increases our risk of becoming involved in the intellectual property disputes concerning these subjects, such as the current widely reported litigations between SCO Group on the one hand and IBM and Red Hat on the other. The Predecessor Company received a notice from SCO Group purporting to terminate, as of October 14, 2003, our fully paid license to certain UNIX operating system-related code, under which we distribute our IRIX operating system, on the basis that we have breached the terms of such license. We believe that the SCO Group’s allegations are without merit and that our fully paid license is non-terminable. SCO Group failed to assert a claim in our bankruptcy case and any pre-petition liability, if any existed, was discharged upon our emergence from bankruptcy. The Predecessor Company received a notice from LG Electronics, Inc. (“LGE”) asserting that the Predecessor Company infringed certain LGE patents. During the bankruptcy proceeding, the parties entered into a stipulation wherein LGE agreed to withdraw the pending motion, agreed not to file any objection to confirmation of the Debtors' Plan of Reorganization, and agreed to withdraw all proofs of claim asserting pre-petition infringement except the one filed against the Company. We agreed that LGE would receive a distribution of $375,000 from the General Unsecured Creditors Claim pool established as part of the Company’s Plan of Reorganization. On September 28, 2006, we filed a lawsuit against LGE in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California seeking a declaratory judgment that we do not infringe LGE’s patents. On May 31, 2007, the Company and LGE stipulated to a dismissal of all claims pending in the September 28, 2006 complaint. The action was dismissed without prejudice and defendant waived all damages that accrued or have accrued since May 8, 2006 with respect to the patents, up to the date 16 Table of Contents that any complaint regarding the patents is refiled. Also, LGE must give counsel of record 30 days’ notice prior to pursuing any claims based on the patents in dispute, and the Company shall have 30 days to refile its claims for declaratory relief. Damages for any alleged infringement of the patents identified in the complaint begin to accrue from the date any complaint with respect to the patents is filed by either party. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss and credit carry forwards. Prior to our emergence from Chapter 11, the Predecessor Company had over $1 billion in U.S. net operating loss (“NOL”) carry-forwards due to prior period losses. Most of these NOL carry-forwards were incurred prior to our Chapter 11 reorganization and therefore are subject to limitation under U.S. and state income tax laws. Pursuant to these loss limitation rules, the utilization of NOL and credit carry forwards of a loss corporation are limited if during a testing period (usually three years) there is greater than a 50% cumulative shift in the ownership of its stock. As a result of the bankruptcy reorganization, we exchanged some of our debt for common stock. This exchange resulted in more than a 50% cumulative shift in our stock ownership. However section 382(l)(5)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) provides an exception to the above described limitation if the shift in ownership was as a result of bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. A taxpayer that takes advantage of this exception will lose its entire pre-bankruptcy NOL’s if within a period of two years from the date of the first shift in the ownership of its stock, it experiences a second shift in ownership that is greater than 50%. The Code also provides in section 382(l)(5)(H) that a taxpayer who ordinarily would qualify for this exception may elect out and become subject to the section 382 limitation. We are currently in the process of evaluating the benefit of electing out of this exception. The Code requires that the election to forego the benefit of this exception be made with a timely filed tax return (including extensions) for the year in which the shift in ownership occurred. If we elect to forego the benefit of section 382(l)(5)(A), our ability to utilize our NOL’s in future years may be limited. As a result, if in any given future fiscal period our taxable profits are in excess of the restricted losses available for offset, this limitation would reduce our after tax income, thereby negatively affecting our cash balances and liquidity. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The computer industry is highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and constantly improving price/performance. Most of our competitors have substantially greater technical, marketing and financial resources. They also generally have a larger installed base of customers and a wider range of available applications software. In addition, a significant percentage of the high-performance computing market is now dominated by cluster computing solutions, and more vendors are competing for this growing share of the market. Also, as our Linux-based systems business grows, the number of our competitors may grow commensurate with the increased market opportunity. Competition may result in significant discounting and lower gross margins. We are subject to the risks of international operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenue outside the United States, and as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business internationally. International transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and the widely differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. War, terrorism or public health issues in the regions of the world in which we do business have caused and may continue to cause damage or disruption to commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties. Such events could adversely affect our business in any number of ways, such as decreasing demand for our products, increasing our costs of operations, making it difficult to deliver products to customers, and causing delays and other problems in our supply chain. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could also suffer due to other international factors, including but not limited to: changes in a country’s economic and labor conditions; currency fluctuations; compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; changes in tax laws; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; fluctuations in transportation costs; natural and medical disasters; and trade protection measures. 17 Table of Contents Many of our international sales require export licenses. Our sales to customers outside the United States are subject to U.S. export regulations. Sales of many of our high-end products require clearance and export licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce under these regulations. Our international sales would be adversely affected if such regulations were tightened, or if they are not modified over time to reflect the increasing performance of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to foreign customers. In addition, we could be subject to regulations, fines and penalties for violations of import and export regulations if we were found in violation of these regulations. Such violations could result in penalties, including prohibiting us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially and adversely affect our business. Compliance or the failure to comply with environmental laws could impact our future net earnings. Certain of our products and operations are regulated under various laws in the U.S., Europe and other parts of the world relating to the environment, including laws and regulations that limit the use of certain substances in our products or require us to recycle our products when they become waste. While it is our policy to ensure that our operations and products comply with environmental laws at all times, any failure to so comply with environmental laws or customer requirements relating to such laws could require us to stop producing or selling certain products, recall noncompliant products, or otherwise incur substantial costs in order to acquire costly equipment to make other operational changes in order to achieve compliance. Although environmental costs and liabilities have not materially affected us to date, due to the nature of our operations and legal developments affecting our products and operations, environmental costs and liabilities could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial position in the future. Increasingly, new regulations are enacted in various jurisdictions at the local, state and country level, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will interact with each other and how they will be implemented and enforced. We track regulatory developments that may impact our business and devote substantial resources toward developing strategies for compliance with new requirements as they are enacted. For example, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and anticipated requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the EU’s RoHS initiative, which regulates the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment put on the market in the European Union on or after July 1, 2006. Due to these restrictions, we have decided not to ship our remarketed products from the United States to Europe after July 1, 2006, and we have completed our work with our suppliers to assure RoHS compliance with respect to our other products. If a regulatory authority determines that one of our products is not RoHS-compliant, we may have to redesign and re-qualify certain components to meet RoHS requirements, which could subject us to increased engineering expenses in this process, and could face shipment delays, penalties and possible product detentions or seizures. We may face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, such as the European Union Directive on WEEE, which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment, including computers, responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Legislation similar to RoHS and WEEE has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Japan and China. These and other environmental laws may become stricter over time and require us to incur substantial compliance costs. RoHS and WEEE are being implemented by individual countries in the European Union and it is likely that each jurisdiction will implement, interpret or enforce RoHS and WEEE somewhat differently. In addition, final guidance from individual jurisdictions may impose different or additional responsibilities on us. Our failure to comply with WEEE and RoHS, contractual obligations relating to WEEE and RoHS or other environmental laws could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in countries in the European Union. 18 Table of Contents Our business is subject to market risk. In the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risk associated with interest rate movements and currency rate movements on non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, as well as collectibility of accounts receivable. We regularly assess these risks and have established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, we do not anticipate material losses in these areas. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 