RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of some of the risk factors relating to our business: If we lose our key personnel, or fail to attract and retain additional qualified experienced personnel, we will be unable to continue to develop our prestige fragrance products and attract and obtain new licensing partners. We believe that our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our highly qualified sales, creative, marketing, and management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain those personnel. These individuals have developed strong reliable relationships with customers and suppliers. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire any additional personnel necessary for our growth. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified managerial personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified managerial personnel in the future, and our failure to do so would limit the growth potential of our business. If the appeal of one of our celebrities would diminish, it could have a material adverse affect on future sales of that specific celebrity-branded fragrance. During the past fiscal year, we have entered into various license agreements with celebrities (entertainers or athletes) to develop, manufacture and distribute products under their names (see “LICENSING AGREEMENTS” for further discussion). These agreements require substantial royalty commitments. If the celebrities’ appeal would diminish, it could result in a material reduction in our sales of such products, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows. Consumers may reduce discretionary purchases of our products as a result of a general economic downturn, terrorism threats, or other external factors. We believe that consumer spending on fragrance products is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience sustained periods of declines in sales during economic downturns, or in the event of terrorism affecting customers’ purchasing patterns. In addition, a general economic downturn may result in reduced traffic in our customers’ stores which may, in turn, result in reduced net sales to our customers. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, its profitability or operating cash flows. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically trademarks and trade names, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own, or have licenses or other rights to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where such products are principally sold; therefore, trademark and trade name protection is 10 important to our business. Although most of our brand names are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights or intellectual property rights which we are licensed to use and may thereby dilute our brands in the marketplace. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Under our license agreement with GUESS?, we are responsible for monitoring for infringement of the GUESS? intellectual property rights. We must take action, at our cost, to stop minor infringement, and may be liable to share a significant portion of the total cost, with GUESS?, to stop substantial infringement. We may infringe on others’ intellectual property rights. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and continue to sell products in the worldwide marketplace and may require the destruction of inventory produced under the infringed name, both of which would adversely affect profitability, and, ultimately operating cash flow. We depend on third parties for the manufacture and delivery of our products, and any disruption or interruption in this supply chain can affect production levels. We do not own or operate any significant manufacturing facilities. We use third-party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture most of our products. We currently obtain these products from a limited number of manufacturers and other suppliers. If we were to experience delays in the delivery of the finished products or the raw materials or components used to make such products, or if these suppliers were unable to supply product, or if there were transportation problems between the suppliers and our distribution center, our sales, profitability, and operating cash flow could be negatively impacted. The loss of or disruption in our distribution facility could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our relationships with our customers. We currently have one distribution facility and two storage warehouses, which are located in south Florida. The loss of, or any damage to these facilities, as well as the inventory stored therein, would require us to find replacement facilities and assets. In addition, weather conditions, such as natural disasters, could disrupt our distribution operations. Certain of our components require purchasing lead times in excess of ninety (90) days. If we cannot replace our distribution capacity and inventory in a timely, cost-efficient manner, it could reduce the inventory we have available for sale, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows, as well as damaging relationships with our customers who are relying on deliveries of our products. Our quarterly results of operations could fluctuate significantly due to retailing peaks related to gift giving seasons and delays in new product launches, which could adversely affect our stock price. We may experience variability in net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of a variety of factors, including timing of customer orders and returns, sell-through of our products by the retailer to the ultimate consumer or gift giver, delays in new product launches, as well as additions or losses of brands or distribution rights. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have an adverse effect on our business, its profitability and operating cash flows. If our operating results for any period are below expectations of stock market analysts, our stock price might decline. If we are unable to acquire or license additional brands or obtain the required financing for these agreements, the growth of our business could be impaired. Our business strategy contemplates the continued increase of our portfolio of owned or licensed brands and distributed brands. Our future expansion through acquisitions of licenses for additional brands, if any, will depend upon the capital resources and working capital available to us. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, negotiating, financing and consummating such acquisitions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and build our business. 11 If we are unable to secure additional new product distribution, or obtain the required financing for these arrangements, the growth of our business could be impaired. Our business strategy also includes the increase of our product portfolio through new product distribution. Our future expansion through new products will depend upon the capital resources and working capital available to us. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, marketing, and financing such product introductions and distribution on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and build our business. If we are unable to secure additional new product distribution, or obtain the required financing for these arrangements, the growth of our business could be impaired. Reductions in worldwide travel could hurt sales volumes in our duty-free related business. We depend on consumer travel for sales to our “duty free” customers in airports and other locations throughout the world. Any reductions in travel, including as a result of general economic downturns, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or acts of war or terrorism, etc. would result in a material decline in sales and profitability for this channel of distribution, which could negatively affect our operating cash flow. Failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our existing credit facility will result in our inability to borrow additional funds under the facility, which would require us to obtain replacement financing, of which there is no assurance. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with various financial covenants. Our ability to meet those covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and therefore we may be unable to meet those covenants. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not remain in compliance with the covenants and would not be allowed to borrow under the credit facility. If we are not able to borrow under our credit facility, we would be required to develop an alternative source of liquidity, or to sell additional securities which would result in dilution to existing stockholders. We may be unable to obtain replacement credit facilities on favorable terms or at all. Without a source of financing, we could experience cash flow difficulties and disruptions in our supply chain. Our arrangements with our manufacturers, suppliers and customers are generally informal and if these arrangements were changed, interrupted, or terminated it could limit our supply of inventory and reduce sales, profitability and operating cash flow. We do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with any of our customers and generally do not maintain long-term or exclusive contracts with our suppliers. Virtually all of our finished products are assembled from multiple components and manufactured by third parties. The loss of key suppliers or customers (particularly Perfumania), or a change in our relationship with them, could result in supply and inventory interruptions and reduced sales, profitability, and operating cash flows. 