ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, strategies, future events or performance are not statements of historical facts and may be forward-looking. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors (in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward-looking statements.) You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, or combination of factors, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: 9 The Paris Hilton line is our primary source of revenue following the expiration of our GUESS? license. During the year ended March 31, 2010, licensed Paris Hilton and GUESS? brand products generated approximately $68.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively, in gross sales. The Paris Hilton and GUESS? brands of fragrances and accessories accounted for approximately 42% and 28%, respectively, of our gross sales from continuing operations during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. The GUESS? license expired on December 31, 2009, and was not renewed. As a result, licensed Paris Hilton brand products accounted for the majority of our gross sales and constituted our primary source of revenue for the year ending March 31, 2011. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, licensed Paris Hilton brand products accounted for $80.1 million in gross sales or approximately 60% of our gross sales. If Paris Hilton's appeal as a celebrity were to diminish it could result in a material reduction in our sales of licensed Paris Hilton brand products, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flows. The Paris Hilton fragrance license is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2014. If we are unable to acquire or license additional brands, secure additional distribution arrangements, or obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements, the growth of our business could be impaired. Our business strategy contemplates growing our portfolio of licensed brands. Our future expansion through acquisitions or new product licensing arrangements, if any, is dependent on the availability of capital resources and working capital. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, negotiating, financing and consummating such acquisitions and licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and grow our portfolio of licensed brands and our business. Additionally, even if we are able to consummate such acquisitions and licensing arrangements, we may not be able to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and portfolio of licenses or generate the expected levels of increased revenue as a result of such acquisitions and licensing arrangements. The development of new products by us involves considerable costs and any new product may not generate sufficient consumer interest and sales to become a profitable brand or to cover the costs of its development and subsequent promotions. Generally, a significant number of new prestige fragrance products have been introduced annually on a worldwide basis. The beauty industry in general is highly competitive and consumer preferences change rapidly. The initial appeal of these new fragrances, launched for the most part in U.S. department stores, has fueled the growth of our industry. Department stores tend to lose sales to the mass market as a product matures. To counter the effect of lower department store sales, companies strategically introduce new products quickly, which requires additional spending for development, advertising and promotional expenses. Our success with new fragrance products depends on our products’ appeal to a broad range of consumers, whose preferences are subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty, and on our ability to anticipate and respond to market trends through product innovation. In addition, a number of the new launches are with celebrities (either entertainers or athletes) which require substantial royalty commitments and whose careers and/or appeal could change dramatically, either positively or negatively, based on a single event. If one or more of our new product introductions were to be unsuccessful, or if the appeal of the celebrity related to a product were to diminish, it could result in a reduction in profitability and operating cash flows. We depend on a relatively small number of customers for most of our revenue, therefore if any of our significant customers reduced their demand for our products or became financially unstable it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from two customers, Perfumania and Macy's. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had sales of $47.5 million, $37.6 million, and $41.5 million, respectively, to Perfumania, which represented 39%, 25%, and 27%, respectively, of our total sales for these periods. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had sales of $27.6 million, $33.8 million, and $34.6 million, respectively, to Macy's, which represented 21%, 21%, and 22%, respectively, of our total sales. The loss of either Perfumania or Macy's as a customer, for any reason, could materially decrease our net sales and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of or interruption in our arrangements with our manufacturers, suppliers and customers could have a material adverse affect on our sales, financial condition, and operating cash flow. We generally do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with our domestic customers, certain international distributors or suppliers. Virtually all of our finished products are assembled from multiple components and manufactured by third parties. If we were to experience delays in the delivery of the finished products or the raw materials or components used to make such products, or if these suppliers were unable to supply such products, or if there were transportation problems between the suppliers and our distribution center, our sales, financial condition, and operating cash flow could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, the loss of key distributors or customers, such as Macy’s or Perfumania, or a change in our relationship with such distributors or customers, could result in excess inventory and reduced sales, profitability, and operating cash flows. 10 The fragrance and cosmetic industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The fragrance and cosmetic industry is highly competitive and, at times, changes rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. We compete primarily with global prestige fragrance companies, most of whom have significantly greater resources than we have and may be able to respond to changes in business and economic conditions more quickly or effectively than us. Competition in the fragrance and cosmetic industry is based on a number of factors including innovation and new product introductions, pricing of products, promotional activities and advertising, special events and electronic commerce initiatives. Our products compete for consumer recognition and shelf space with products that have achieved significant international, national and regional brand name recognition and consumer loyalty. Our products also compete with new products that often are accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In addition, these factors, as well as demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors could result in increased competition and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and a decrease in sales or profit margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate seasonally, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during peak holiday gift-giving seasons. Any decrease in sales or profit margins during these periods could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We provide allowances for sales returns based on our historical “sell-through” experience, economic trends and changes in our assessment of customer demand. Our customers generally request approval for the return of unsold items after a specific holiday gift-giving season and fluctuations in the allowance balance are generally higher after holiday gift-giving seasons. An increase in sales returns due to a change in economic conditions, or otherwise, may result in our estimated allowances being insufficient and may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, we may have to write down our inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or we may not be able to sell such inventory at all, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The continued consolidation of the U.S. department store segment could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, and operating cash flow. Over the last few years, the United States department store market has experienced a significant amount of consolidation, the most recent significant example of which is the consolidation of Macy’s various regional divisions into one centralized purchasing function. Such consolidations have resulted in us becoming increasingly dependent on key retailers, who have increased their bargaining strength and implemented measures such as store closings, increased inventory control and management changes, as well as changes in administrative and purchasing responsibilities. This consolidation trend has also resulted in an increased risk related to the concentration of our customers. The continued consolidation of department stores, whether successful or unsuccessful, could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, and operating cash flow. Our customers’ inability or other failure to pay their accounts payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We continuously monitor the collectability of our receivables by analyzing the aging of our accounts receivable, assessing our customers credit worthiness, and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions on our customers. While our invoice terms to Perfumania are stated as net ninety (90) days, for more than fifteen years, our management has granted longer payment terms to Perfumania. As of March 31, 2011 and 2010, Perfumania had an account balance of $12.7 million and $10.5 million, respectively, due to us. Trade accounts receivable from Perfumania are non-interest bearing, and are paid in accordance with the terms established by management. We continue to evaluate our Perfumania credit risk, based on Perfumania's reported results and comparable store sales performance, and assess the collectability of the Perfumania receivables. Based on our evaluation, no allowances for Perfumania receivables have been recorded as of March 31, 2011 and 2010. Significant changes in the factors that affect the collectability of our receivables, including the Perfumania receivables, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Consumers have reduced discretionary purchases of our products as a result of the general economic downturn, and may further reduce discretionary purchases of our products in the event of further economic decline, terrorism threats or other external factors. Consumer spending is generally affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs and consumer confidence generally. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as fragrance products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. As a result of the severe economic downturn, we have experienced a decline in sales since the quarter ended December 31, 2008. In addition, this general economic downturn has resulted in reduced traffic in our customers' stores which, in turn, resulted in reduced net sales to our customers. We face continued economic challenges in fiscal year 2011 because consumers continued to have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and falling home prices, among other things. If current economic conditions continue or worsen, we could experience further declines in sales, profitability and operating cash flows due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by the economic challenges faced by customers, prospective customers and suppliers. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions as a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, war, adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters, or pandemic situations can have a short or, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending. Our New Loan Agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds under the New Loan Agreement or adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility. Our New Loan Agreement contains certain restrictive and financial covenants. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends; · create or incur liens; or · engage in mergers or acquisitions. Additionally, we have to maintain a minimum net liquidity balance throughout the term of the New Loan Agreement and in order to borrow funds under the New Loan Agreement. If we fall below the net liquidity requirements at any point, the New Loan Agreement contains additional financial covenants relating to minimum consolidated EBITDA, minimum consolidated interest coverage ratios and maximum capital expenditure limits. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors which may have fewer restrictive and financial covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisitions or other opportunities. Our ability to comply with financial covenants could be affected by events beyond our control. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not remain in compliance with the financial covenants and would not be allowed to borrow under the New Loan Agreement. If we are not able to borrow under the New Loan Agreement or if our financing needs increase, we may have to seek an alternative or additional source of financing. If we were to fail to obtain an alternative or additional source of financing in such circumstances, we could experience cash flow difficulties and disruptions in our supply chain or be unable to pursue our business strategy or fund capital expenditures. Failure to manage inventory effectively could negatively impact our operations. The composition of our inventory at any given time may vary considerably depending on launches of new products, forecasted sales of significant amounts of our products during the peak holiday gift-giving seasons and as a result of termination or expiration of our fragrance licenses and sub-licenses. If we misjudge consumer preferences or demands or future sales do not reach forecasted levels, we could have excess inventory that may need to be held for a long period of time, written down, sold at prices lower than expected, or discarded in order to clear excess inventory at the end of a selling season. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand, we may not be able to provide products to our customers to meet their demand. Either event could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The termination or expiration of our fragrance licenses may result in inventory which we may need to write down to the amounts which we estimate could be realized upon their sale or liquidation. During the year ended March 31, 2010, we recorded additional charges of $7.6 million to cost of sales to reduce the recorded value of inventories related to our GUESS? license as a result of the expiration of this license on December 31, 2009. In addition, inventory shrink (inventory theft or loss) rates can also significantly impact our business performance and financial results. 12 The value of our long-lived assets, including brand licenses and trademarks, may be adversely affected if we experience declines in operating results or experience significant negative industry or economic trends. The majority of our long-lived assets are the result of the acquisition of existing license brands or sublicensing opportunities. For newly launched brands our long-lived assets are generally the result of our investment in trademarking brand names and designs, and are generally not a material portion of our assets. At least on an annual basis, long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment losses are recognized if expected undiscounted future cash flows of the long-lived assets are less than their carrying values. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions. The assumptions used include an analysis by license, and by fragrance produced under each license, which may vary depending on the age of the product. Expected sales along with related costs of sales, direct expenses and certain allocated charges are projected through the end of each given license period. Expected sales estimates incorporate the age of a product and its market distribution. If actual operating results differ from management’s estimates, or if we experience the impact of negative industry or economic trends, write downs of our long-lived assets, including brand licenses and trademarks, may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically trademarks and trade names, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own, or have licenses or other rights to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where such products are principally sold; therefore, trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. Although most of our brand names are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, especially in the product class that includes fragrance products. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. If other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights that we license, the value of our brands in the marketplace may be diluted. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Additionally, we may infringe or be accused of infringing on others’ intellectual property rights and one or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If we experience privacy breaches and liability for online content, it could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software for our various social media tools and websites that we utilize as part of our marketing strategy. There is a growing concern over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. Despite the implementation of reasonable security measures by us and our third-party providers, these sites and systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information regarding our customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, impair our ability to attract website visitors and reduce our ability to attract and retain customers. Additionally, as the number of users of forums and social media features on our websites increases, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted on our websites by users and other third parties. Finally, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding unauthorized disclosure of personal information. The loss of, or disruption in our distribution facility, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our relationships with our customers. We have one distribution facility, located in New Jersey, which is close to where our fragrance products are manufactured and packaged. The loss of, or any damage to, our New Jersey facility, as well as the inventory stored therein, would require us to find replacement facilities. In addition, weather conditions, such as inclement weather or other natural disasters, could disrupt our distribution operations. Certain of our components require purchasing lead times in excess of 180 days. If we cannot replace our distribution capacity and inventory in a timely, cost-efficient manner, it could reduce the inventory we have available for sale, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows, as well as damaging relationships with our customers who are relying on deliveries of our products. Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our fragrance and related products. Our success depends, in part, on the quality and safety of our fragrance and related products. If our products are found to be unsafe or defective, or if they otherwise fail to meet customers or consumers’ standards and expectations, our reputation could be adversely affected, our relationships with customers or consumers could suffer, the appeal of one or more of our brands could be diminished, our sales could be adversely affected and/or we may become subject to liability claims, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We operate on a global basis, with sales in approximately 80 countries. Our international operations could be adversely affected by: · import and export license requirements; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs and taxes; · product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; · restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; · the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls; · changes in, or our unfamiliarity with, foreign laws and regulations; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; · changes in economic, social, legal and other conditions; · the volatility or weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies; · greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; and · geo-political conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action, public health problems and natural disasters. Reductions in worldwide travel could hurt sales volumes in our duty-free related business. We depend on consumer travel for sales to our “duty free” customers in airports and other locations throughout the world. Any reductions in travel, including as a result of general economic downturns, natural disasters, or acts of war or terrorism, or disease epidemics, could result in a material decline in sales and profitability for this channel of distribution, which could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition, and operating cash flow. If we lose the services of our executive officers and senior management, it could have a negative impact on our business. Our success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of our executive officers and senior management. If we lose the services of our executive officers and senior management, it could have a negative impact on our business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 14 If we lose our key personnel, or fail to attract and retain additional qualified experienced personnel, we will be unable to continue to develop our prestige fragrance products and attract and obtain new licensing partners. We believe that our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our highly qualified sales, creative, marketing, and management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain those personnel. These individuals have developed strong reliable relationships with customers and suppliers. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire any additional personnel necessary for our growth. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified managerial personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified managerial personnel in the future, and our failure to do so would limit the growth potential of our business and potential licensing partners may not be as attracted to our organization. We may unknowingly infringe on others’ intellectual property rights which could result in litigation. We may unknowingly produce and sell products in a country where another party has already obtained intellectual property rights. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and continue to sell products in the worldwide marketplace and may require the destruction of inventory produced under the infringed name, both of which would adversely affect profitability, and, ultimately operating cash flow. We are involved in litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business, which, if the outcome of such litigation is adverse to us, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Given the nature of our business, we are involved in litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Except as set forth under Part I, Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings”, we are not presently a party to any material legal proceedings, although legal proceedings could be filed against us in the future. No assurance can be given as to the final outcome of any legal proceedings or that the ultimate resolution of any legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our quarterly results of operations could fluctuate significantly due to retailing peaks related to gift giving seasons and delays in new product launches, which could adversely affect our stock price. We may experience variability in net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of a variety of factors, including timing of customer orders and returns, sell-through of our products by the retailer to the ultimate consumer or gift giver, delays in new product launches, as well as additions or losses of brands or distribution rights. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have an adverse effect on our business, its profitability and operating cash flows, and correspondingly, the price of our common stock. Our information systems and websites may be susceptible to outages and other risks. We have information systems that support our business processes, including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intracompany communications throughout the world. These systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of these or other events could disrupt or damage our information systems, result in the dissemination of confidential information and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to regulation in the United States and internationally. The manufacturing, distribution, formulation, packaging and advertising of our fragrance and related products are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign governmental regulations. Compliance with these regulations is costly and difficult. If we fail to adhere, or are alleged to have failed to adhere, to any applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, our business, prospects, results of operation, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, including those relating to product liability, trade rules and customs regulations, intellectual property, consumer laws, privacy laws and product regulation, as well as accounting standards and taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations). 15 Our stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events, such as: · quarterly variations in operating results; · acquisitions, capital commitments or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · legal and regulatory matters that are applicable to our business; · the operating and stock price performances of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; · news reports relating to trends in our markets; and · the amount of shares constituting our public float. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the performance of specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 