Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and the prevailing market price and performance of our common stock, may be adversely effected by a number of factors, including the matters discussed below. Certain statements and information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other written or oral statements made from time to time by us or by our authorized officers on our behalf, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We intend for our forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should note that forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Although we believe that the expectations, plans, intentions and projections reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors that our stockholders and prospective investors should consider include the following: The Paris Hilton and GUESS? lines are our primary sources of revenue following our sale of the Perry Ellis brand. During the year ended March 31, 2009, licensed Paris Hilton and GUESS? brand products generated approximately $87.2 million and $47.2 million, respectively, in gross sales. The Paris Hilton and GUESS? brands of fragrances and accessories accounted for approximately 55% and 30%, respectively, of our gross sales from continuing operations during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, and are expected to account for the majority of our gross sales in the year ending March 31, 2010. If Paris Hilton's appeal as a celebrity were to diminish, or 11 GUESS? would not approve shipments to our international distributors (See “Licensing Agreements” in Item 1 for further discussion) it could result in a material reduction in our sales of products licensed by them, adversely affecting our results of operations and operating cash flows. That risk has become more significant as these product lines have become our primary source of revenue. The Paris Hilton fragrance license is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2014. The GUESS? license is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2009. We anticipate that the GUESS? license will not be renewed beyond its current expiration date. If we are unable to acquire or license additional brands, secure additional distribution arrangements, or obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements, the growth of our business could be impaired. Our business strategy contemplates the continued increase of our portfolio of licensed brands. Our future expansion through acquisitions or new product licensing arrangements, if any, will depend upon the capital resources and working capital available to us. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, negotiating, financing and consummating such acquisitions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and build our business. The development of new products by us involves considerable costs and any new product may not generate sufficient consumer interest and sales to become a profitable brand or to cover the costs of its development. Generally, a significant number of new prestige fragrance products have been introduced annually on a worldwide basis. The beauty industry in general is highly competitive and consumer preferences change rapidly. The initial appeal of these new fragrances, launched for the most part in U.S. department stores, has fueled the growth of our industry. Department stores tend to lose sales to the mass market as a product matures. To counter the effect of lower department store sales, companies are required to introduce new products more quickly, which requires additional spending for development, advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, a number of the new launches are with celebrities (either entertainers or athletes) which require substantial royalty commitments and whose careers and/or appeal could change dramatically, either positively or negatively, based on a single event. If one or more of our new product introductions were to be u nsuccessful, or if the appeal of the celebrity related to a product were to diminish, it could result in a reduction in profitability and operating cash flows. The loss of or interruption in our arrangements with our manufacturers, suppliers and customers could have a material adverse affect on our sales, profitability, and operating cash flow. We generally do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with our domestic customers, international distributors or suppliers. Virtually all of our finished products are assembled from multiple components and manufactured by third parties. If we were to experience delays in the delivery of the finished products or the raw materials or components used to make such products, or if these suppliers were unable to supply such products, or if there were transportation problems between the suppliers and our distribution center, our sales, profitability, and operating cash flow could be negatively impacted. In addition, the loss of key distributors or customers, such as Macy’s or Perfumania, or a change in our relationship with such distributors or customers, could result in excess inventory and reduced sales, profitability, and operating cash flows. The fragrance and cosmetic industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The fragrance and cosmetic industry is highly competitive and, at times, changes rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. We compete primarily with global prestige fragrance companies, most of whom have significantly greater resources than we have. Our products compete for consumer recognition and shelf space with products that have achieved significant international, national and regional brand name recognition and consumer loyalty. Our products also compete with new products that often are accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In addition, these factors, as well as demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors, could result in increased competition and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis and a decrease in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate seasonally, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during peak holiday gift-giving seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, we may have to write down our inventory or sell it at significantly reduced prices or we may not be able to sell such inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The continued consolidation of the U.S. department store segment could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Over the last few years, the United States department store market has encountered a significant amount of consolidation, the most recent significant example of which is the consolidation of Macy’s various regional divisions into one centralized purchasing function. Such consolidations have resulted in store closings, increased inventory control and management changes, as well as changes in administrative responsibilities. This transition, if unsuccessful, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Perfumania is one of our largest customers and a loss of Perfumania as a customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. Perfumania is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Perfumania Holdings, Inc., formerly known as E Com Ventures, Inc., and the majority stockholders of Perfumania own approximately 10.1% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2009. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we had net sales from continuing operations of $41.5 million, $51.2 million, and $11.7 million, respectively, to Perfumania, which represented 27%, 33%, and 9%, respectively, of our net sales from continuing operations for the periods. In addition, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, we had sales to Perfumania of $5.5 million of Perry Ellis products, which are reflected as discontinued operations. Any significant reduction in business with Perfumania as our customer would have a material adverse effect on our net sales. Perfumania’s inability to pay its accounts payable balance due to us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of March 31, 2009, Perfumania had an account balance of $12.4 million due to us. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we had net sales from continuing operations of approximately $41.5 million, $51.2 million, and $11.7 million, respectively, to Perfumania, which represented 27%, 33%, and 9%, respectively, of our net sales from continuing operations for the periods. On January 28, 2009, Perfumania filed a Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing that it was not in compliance with a certain debt covenant under its Senior Credit Facility triggering an event of default. Perfumania reported that it has requested a waiver from their Senior Creditor, but there are no guarantees that the waiver will be received. If Perfumania is unable to obtain a waiver or to refinance its credit facility, its operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Any significant reducti on in business with Perfumania as a customer of the Company would have a material adverse effect on our net sales. Perfumania’s inability to pay its account balance due to us at a time when it has a substantial accounts payable balance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our existing credit facility will result in our inability to borrow additional funds under the facility, which would require us to obtain replacement financing, of which there is no assurance. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with various financial covenants. As of March 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of these covenants. Our ability to meet those covenants can be effected by events beyond our control, and therefore we may be unable to meet those covenants. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not remain in compliance with the covenants and would not be allowed to borrow under the credit facility. If we are not able to borrow under our credit facility, we would be required to develop an alternative source of liquidity, or to sell additional securities which would result in dilution to 13 existing stockholders. We may be unable to obtain replacement credit facilities on favorable terms or at all. Without a source of financing, we could experience cash flow difficulties and disruptions in our supply chain. Consumers have reduced discretionary purchases of our products as a result of the recent general economic downturn, and may further reduce discretionary purchases of our products in the event of further economic decline, terrorism threats or other external factors. We believe that consumer spending on fragrance and other accessory products is influenced to a great extent by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. As a result of the recent severe economic downturn, we have experienced a decline in sales during our last two quarters. In addition, this general economic downturn has resulted in reduced traffic in our customers’ stores which, in turn, resulted in reduced net sales to our customers. If this situation would continue, any significant long-term reduction in our sales could have a material adverse affect on our business, profitability or operating cash flows. Further, in the event of terrorism or epidemics affecting customers’ purchasing patterns, we may experience sustained periods of decline in sales. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically trademarks and trade names, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own, or have licenses or other rights to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where such products are principally sold; therefore, trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. Although most of our brand names are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights or other intellectual property rights which we are licensed to use and may thereby dilute our brands in the marketplace. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Under our license agreement with GUESS?, we are responsible for monitoring any infringement of the GUESS? intellectual property rights. We must take action, at our cost, to stop minor infringement, and may be liable to share a significant portion of the total cost, with GUESS?, to stop substantial infringement. The accessories market, specifically, watches, handbags, and sunglasses, is also highly competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. As with fragrances and cosmetics, the accessories market is highly competitive and also changes rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. In addition, we do not have the extent of experience in this market segment as we do in fragrances. We may have difficulty in sourcing these accessory items, all of which will be manufactured by independent third parties, and may not meet the quality standards expected by the licensor and/or the consumer. Consumer awareness and positive imagery of the licensor could also be impacted by adverse publicity, which could negatively impact retailer and consumer attitudes. Additionally, we are obligated to make required minimum royalty payments even if sales do not reach the required contractual minimum sales levels, and to date we have not generated sufficient sales of accessories to offset the minimum royalty payments. Our lack of experience in these highly competitive markets could result in a ma terial adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of, or disruption in our distribution facility, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our relationships with our customers. We have one distribution facility, located in New Jersey, which is close to where our fragrance products are manufactured and packaged. The loss of, or any damage, to our New Jersey facility, as well as the inventory stored therein, would require us to find replacement facilities. In addition, weather conditions, such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could disrupt our distribution operations. Certain of our components require purchasing lead times in excess of ninety days. If we cannot replace our distribution capacity and inventory in a timely, cost-efficient 14 manner, it could reduce the inventory we have available for sale, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows, as well as damaging relationships with our customers who are relying on deliveries of our products. Reductions in worldwide travel could hurt sales volumes in our duty-free related business. We depend on consumer travel for sales to our “duty free” customers in airports and other locations throughout the world. Any reductions in travel, including as a result of general economic downturns, or acts of war or terrorism, or disease epidemics, could result in a material decline in sales and profitability for this channel of distribution, which could negatively affect our operating cash flow. If we lose the services of our executive officers and senior management, it could have a negative impact on our business. Our success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of our executive officers and senior management. If we lose the services of our executive officers and senior management, it could have a negative impact on our business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. If we lose our key personnel, or fail to attract and retain additional qualified experienced personnel, we will be unable to continue to develop our prestige fragrance products and attract and obtain new licensing partners. We believe that our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our highly qualified sales, creative, marketing, and management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain those personnel. These individuals have developed strong reliable relationships with customers and suppliers. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire any additional personnel necessary for our growth. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified managerial personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified managerial personnel in the future, and our failure to do so would limit the growth potential of our business and potential licensing partners may not be as attracted to our organization. We may unknowingly infringe on others’ intellectual property rights which could result in litigation. We may unknowingly produce and sell products in a country where another party has already obtained intellectual property rights. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and continue to sell products in the worldwide marketplace and may require the destruction of inventory produced under the infringed name, both of which would adversely affect profitability, and, ultimately operating cash flow. We are involved in litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business, which, if the outcome of such litigation is adverse to us, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Given the nature of our business, we are involved in litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Except as set forth under Part I, Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings”, we are not presently a party to any material legal proceedings, although legal proceedings could be filed against us in the future. No assurance can be given as to the final outcome of any legal proceedings or that the ultimate resolution of any legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our quarterly results of operations could fluctuate significantly due to retailing peaks related to gift giving seasons and delays in new product launches, which could adversely affect our stock price. We may experience variability in net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of a variety of factors, including timing of customer orders and returns, sell-through of our products by the retailer to the ultimate consumer or gift giver, delays in new product launches, as well as additions or losses of brands or distribution rights. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have an adverse effect on our business, its profitability and operating cash flows, and correspondingly, the price of our common stock. 15 Our stock price has been volatile. The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events, such as: · quarterly variations in operating results; · acquisitions, capital commitments or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; · legal and regulatory matters that are applicable to our business; · the operating and stock price performances of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; · news reports relating to trends in our markets; and · the amount of shares constituting our public float. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the performance of specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 