Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a discussion of some of the risk factors relating to our business: If we lose our key personnel, or fail to attract and retain additional qualified experienced personnel, we will be unable to continue to develop our prestige fragrance products and attract and obtain new licensing partners. We believe that our future success depends upon the continued contributions of our highly qualified sales, creative, marketing, and management personnel and on our ability to attract and retain those personnel. These individuals have developed strong reliable relationships with customers and suppliers. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us or that we will be able to hire any additional personnel necessary for our growth. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified managerial personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified managerial personnel in the future, and our failure to do so would limit the growth potential of our business and potential licensing partners may not be as attracted to our organization. If the appeal of one of our celebrities would diminish, it could have a material adverse affect on future sales of that specific celebrity-branded fragrance. During the last two fiscal years, we have entered into various license agreements with celebrities (entertainers or athletes) to develop, manufacture and distribute products under their names (see “Licensing Agreements” for further discussion). These agreements require substantial royalty commitments. During the year ended March 31, 2006, licensed Paris Hilton brand products generated approximately $76 million in gross sales. If a celebrities’ appeal would diminish, it could result in a material reduction in our sales of such products, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows. Consumers may reduce discretionary purchases of our products as a result of a general economic downturn, terrorism threats, or other external factors. We believe that consumer spending on fragrance and other accessory products is influenced more than average by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience sustained periods of declines in sales during economic downturns, or in the event of terrorism or diseases affecting customers’ purchasing patterns. In addition, a general economic downturn may result in reduced traffic in our customers’ stores which may, in turn, result in reduced net sales to our customers. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, its profitability or operating cash flows. The fragrance and cosmetic industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The fragrance and cosmetic industry is highly competitive and at times changes rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. We compete primarily with global prestige fragrance companies, some of whom have significantly greater resources than we have. Our products compete for consumer recognition and shelf space with products that have achieved significant international, national and regional brand name recognition and consumer loyalty. Our products also compete with new products that often are accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns. In addition, these factors, as well as demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors, could result in increased competition and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The continued consolidation of the U.S. department store segment, and the transition period after such consolidation, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Over the last few years, the United States department store market has encountered a significant amount of consolidation, the most recent of which was the merger of Federated Department Stores and May Corp. Such mergers and consolidations have resulted in store closings, increased inventory management as well as changes in administrative responsibilities. This transition, if not completed smoothly, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. 10 The development of new products by us involves considerable costs and any new product may not generate sufficient consumer interest and sales to become a profitable brand or to cover the costs of its development. Over the last few years, a significant number of new prestige fragrance products have been introduced on a worldwide basis. The beauty industry in general is highly competitive and consumer preferences change rapidly. The initial appeal of these new fragrances, launched for the most part in U.S. department stores, has fueled the growth of our industry. Department stores continue to lose sales to the mass market as a product matures. To counter the effect of lower department store sales, companies are required to introduce new products more quickly, which requires additional spending for development, advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, a number of the new launches are with celebrities (either entertainers or athletes) which require substantial royalty commitments and whose careers and/or appeal could change dramatically, either positively or negatively, based on a single event. If one or more of our new product introductions were to be unsuccessful, or the appeal of the celebrity were to diminish, it could result in a reduction in profitability and operating cash flows. The accessories market, specifically, watches, handbags, and sunglasses, is also highly competitive and if we are unable to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. As with fragrances and cosmetics, the accessories market is highly competitive and also changes rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. In addition, we do not have the extent of experience in this market segment as we do in fragrances. We may have difficulty in sourcing these accessory items, all of which will be manufactured by independent third parties, and may not meet the quality standards expected by the licensor and/or the consumer. Additionally, the consumer awareness and positive imagery of the licensor could be impacted by adverse publicity, which could negatively impact retailer and consumer attitudes. Our lack of experience in this highly competitive market could result in a material adverse effect on our profitability, operating cash flow, and many other aspects of our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, specifically trademarks and trade names, our ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and trade names. We own, or have licenses or other rights to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the United States and in other countries where such products are principally sold; therefore, trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. Although most of our brand names are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights or intellectual property rights which we are licensed to use and may thereby dilute our brands in the marketplace. Any infringement of our intellectual property rights would likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. Under our license agreement with GUESS?, we are responsible for monitoring for infringement of the GUESS? Intellectual property rights. We must take action, at our cost, to stop minor infringement, and may be liable to share a significant portion of the total cost, with GUESS?, to stop substantial infringement. We may unknowingly infringe on others’ intellectual property rights which could result in litigation. We may unknowingly produce and sell products in a country where another party has already obtained intellectual property rights. One or more adverse judgments with respect to these intellectual property rights could negatively impact our ability to compete and continue to sell products in the worldwide marketplace and may require the destruction of inventory produced under the infringed name, both of which would adversely affect profitability, and, ultimately operating cash flow. 11 We depend on third parties for the manufacture and delivery of our products, and any disruption or interruption in this supply chain can affect production levels. We do not own or operate any significant manufacturing facilities. We use third-party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture most of our products. We currently obtain these products from a limited number of manufacturers and other suppliers. If we were to experience delays in the delivery of the finished products or the raw materials or components used to make such products, or if these suppliers were unable to supply product, or if there were transportation problems between the suppliers and our distribution center, our sales, profitability, and operating cash flow could be negatively impacted. Our arrangements with our manufacturers, suppliers and customers are generally informal and if these arrangements were changed, interrupted, or terminated it could limit our supply of inventory and reduce sales, profitability and operating cash flow. We do not have long-term or exclusive contracts with any of our customers and generally do not maintain long-term or exclusive contracts with our suppliers. Virtually all of our finished products are assembled from multiple components and manufactured by third parties. The loss of key suppliers or customers, Perfumania and other related parties (see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion), or a change in our relationship with them, could result in supply and inventory interruptions and reduced sales, profitability, and operating cash flows. The loss of, or disruption in our distribution facility, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our relationships with our customers. We currently have one distribution facility, which is located in south Florida. We recently entered into an additional lease to relocate certain of our fragrance distribution functions to New Jersey, which is closer to where our fragrance products are filled and packaged. The loss of, or any damage to our current or future facilities, as well as the inventory stored therein, would require us to find replacement facilities and assets. In addition, weather conditions, such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could disrupt our distribution operations. Certain of our components require purchasing lead times in excess of ninety days. If we cannot replace our distribution capacity and inventory in a timely, cost-efficient manner, it could reduce the inventory we have available for sale, adversely affecting our profitability and operating cash flows, as well as damaging relationships with our customers who are relying on deliveries of our produ cts. Our quarterly results of operations could fluctuate significantly due to retailing peaks related to gift giving seasons and delays in new product launches, which could adversely affect our stock price. We may experience variability in net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of a variety of factors, including timing of customer orders and returns, sell-through of our products by the retailer to the ultimate consumer or gift giver, delays in new product launches, as well as additions or losses of brands or distribution rights. Any resulting material reduction in our sales could have an adverse effect on our business, its profitability and operating cash flows, and correspondingly, the price of our common stock. If we are unable to acquire or license additional brands, secure additional distribution arrangements, or obtain the required financing for these agreements and arrangements, the growth of our business could be impaired. Our business strategy contemplates the continued increase of our portfolio of owned or licensed brands and distributed brands. Our future expansion through acquisitions or new product distribution arrangements, if any, will depend upon the capital resources and working capital available to us. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, negotiating, financing and consummating such acquisitions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could hinder our ability to increase revenues and build our business. Reductions in worldwide travel could hurt sales volumes in our duty-free related business. We depend on consumer travel for sales to our “duty free” customers in airports and other locations throughout the world. Any reductions in travel, including as a result of general economic downturns, or acts of war or terrorism, or epidemics such as Bird Flu or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, could result in a material decline in sales and profitability for this channel of distribution, which could negatively affect our operating cash flow. 12 Failure to comply with restrictive covenants in our existing credit facility will result in our inability to borrow additional funds under the facility, which would require us to obtain replacement financing, of which there is no assurance. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with various financial covenants. Our ability to meet those covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and therefore we may be unable to meet those covenants. If our actual results deviate significantly from our projections, we may not remain in compliance with the covenants and would not be allowed to borrow under the credit facility. If we are not able to borrow under our credit facility, we would be required to develop an alternative source of liquidity, or to sell additional securities which would result in dilution to existing stockholders. We may be unable to obtain replacement credit facilities on favorable terms or at all. Without a source of financing, we could experience cash flow difficulties and disruptions in our supply chain. Complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may result in substantial costs and utilization of Company resources. At September 30, 2005, the end of the second quarter of our current fiscal year, our market capitalization exceeded $75 million, and as such, the Company became an accelerated filer under Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as an accelerated filer, the Company is required to perform an assessment of, and complete testing on, its internal controls over financial reporting and report its conclusions on the effectiveness of such controls for the first time at the end of our current fiscal year which ended March 31, 2006. In addition, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm must assess management’s process for evaluating and testing its internal controls, as well as perform their own testing and report on their conclusions. The cost of such compliance could result in a reduction in profitability as well as distraction t o management and employees from performing their day-to-day activities. 