ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS SGI operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. We have been incurring losses and consuming cash in our operations and must reverse these trends. We have incurred net losses and negative cash flows from operations resulting from year over year declines in revenue during 12 Table of Contents each of the past several fiscal years. At June 30, 2006, our principal source of liquidity was unrestricted cash and marketable investments of $55 million, down from $64 million at June 24, 2005. Currently, we expect to continue consuming cash from operations through at least the first half of fiscal 2007. We also experience significant intra-quarter fluctuations in our cash levels, with the result that our cash balances are generally at their highest point at the end of each quarter and significantly lower at other times. These intra-quarter fluctuations reflect our business cycle, with significant requirements for inventory purchases in the early part of the quarter and most sales closing in the last few weeks of the quarter. To maintain adequate levels of unrestricted cash within each quarter, we offer certain customers discounted terms for early payment and hold certain vendor payments to the beginning of the following quarter. We also continue to focus on expense controls, margin improvement initiatives and working capital efficiencies. However, it is essential to our operating plans for fiscal 2007 that our restructuring plan yields its anticipated savings and we meet the goals of our financing arrangements for both fiscal years. See“—Financial Condition”. To seek to improve our liquidity, we are continuing to implement restructuring actions aimed at substantial expense reductions and a revenue generation initiative aimed at reversing the decline in our revenues. In addition, our operating goals require us to maintain stable year-over-year revenue levels while realizing our targeted expense savings and margin improvements. If we fail to achieve these targets, we will likely consume further cash in our operations, which would further impair our liquidity. See “—Financial Condition”. Our future financial results will be affected by the adoption of fresh start accounting and may not reflect historical trends. The Company’s emergence from Chapter 11 proceedings will result in a new reporting entity and adoption of fresh-start reporting in accordance with SOP 90-7. As required by fresh-start accounting, our assets and liabilities will be adjusted to fair value, and certain assets and liabilities not previously recognized in the Company’s financial statements will be recognized under fresh-start accounting. Because we have not yet completed our reorganization and adopted fresh start accounting, the condensed consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2006 do not give effect to any adjustments in the carrying values of assets or liabilities that will be recorded upon implementation of the Company’s Plan. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the effective date will not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements. For further information about fresh start accounting, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Fresh Start Reporting”. We face significant challenges in connection with our bankruptcy reorganization. On May 8, 2006, we and certain of our subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. Our ability, both during and after the Chapter 11 Cases, to continue as a going-concern is dependent upon, among other things, (i) our ability to successfully achieve required cost savings to complete our restructuring; (ii) our ability to maintain adequate cash on hand; (iii) our ability to generate cash from operations; (iv) the consummation of a plan of reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code; and (v) our ability to achieve profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully achieve these objectives in order to continue as a going-concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result should we be unable to continue as a going-concern. There is a risk of non-occurrence of the effective date. At a hearing held on September 19, 2006, the Court confirmed our Plan (the “Confirmation Date”). While the Plan has been confirmed by the Court, it has not yet been consummated. Although we believe that the effective date of the Plan (the “Effective Date”) will occur soon after the Confirmation Date, there can be no assurance as to such timing. Under the Plan, the Effective Date must occur within 30 days of the date of the Court’s order confirming the Plan. Moreover, if each of the conditions to consummation and the occurrence of the Effective Date has not been satisfied or duly waived on or before October 20, 2006, or such later date as may be consented to by the parties, the Court may vacate the Confirmation Order, in which event the Plan would be deemed null and void. The failure of the Effective Date to occur on or before October 20, 2006, would (unless duly waived) constitute a termination event under the Restructuring Agreement that could allow parties to terminate their obligations to support the Plan. This, in turn, could cause an event of default under the Company’s post-petition financing agreement and the post-petition financing order that could give rise to termination of the post-petition credit facility and the Debtors’ ability to use cash collateral as well as the exercise of remedies by the agent thereunder with respect to some or all of the Debtors’ assets. 13 Table of Contents We may not achieve our operating goals and may not be in compliance with debt covenants. In June 2006, the Debtors entered into a replacement Post-Petition Loan and Security Agreement with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc., and certain other lenders party thereto, providing up to $130 million of debtor-in-possession financing. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Under the terms of the $130 million DIP Financing, we are required to comply with various terms and conditions. Although to date we have been in compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such terms and conditions in the future. In the event that we default under the DIP Agreement and the DIP Agreement is terminated, there can be no assurance that sufficient alternative financing arrangements will be available. Furthermore, in the event that cash flows, together with available borrowings under the $130 million DIP Financing or alternative financing arrangements, are not sufficient to meet the Company’s cash requirements, we may be required to reduce planned capital expenditures, sell additional assets and seek other sources of capital. We can provide no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to cover any cash shortfalls. The need to comply with the terms of our debt obligations may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry. In addition, if we are unable to achieve the goals of our going-forward business plan and operational restructuring strategy, we may be forced to sell all or parts of our business, develop and implement further restructuring plans or become subject to further insolvency proceedings. We may not be successful in closing our exit financing. We have received a commitment and paid a commitment fee to Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and General Electric Capital Corporation to provide the Company with a credit facility adequate to meet our forecasted cash requirements. The commitment for financing is dependent on completing a definitive loan agreement, and other closing conditions. While we believe that we will be able to successfully meet these requirements, we cannot guarantee that the funds will be made available to us until all such conditions are met. Our bankruptcy reorganization may negatively impact our future operations and the operations of our subsidiaries. As part of the first day relief requested in the Chapter 11 Cases, the Court entered orders allowing us to pay certain pre-petition key vendor trade claims in the ordinary course of business. However, we were not permitted to pay all of our vendors in full. As a result, while we have not yet experienced any significant disruption in our relationships with our suppliers or vendors, we may have difficulty maintaining existing relationships, or creating new relationships with suppliers or vendors. Our suppliers and vendors could stop providing supplies or services to us or provide such supplies or services only on terms such as ‘cash on delivery,’ ‘cash on order,’ or other terms that could have an adverse impact on our short-term cash flows. In addition, the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations. The filing of the Chapter 11 Cases and the publicity surrounding the filing might also adversely affect the businesses of our non-debtor subsidiaries. Because our business is closely related to the businesses of all of our subsidiaries, any downturn in the business of our subsidiaries could also affect our prospects. It remains uncertain whether the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases and the associated risks will adversely affect the businesses of any of our subsidiaries. In addition, our non-debtor subsidiaries do not have the benefit of the automatic stay and other protections afforded by the Bankruptcy Code. Upon consummation of the Plan, our existing common stock will be cancelled and have no value. Under the Plan, all of our existing common stock will be cancelled upon consummation of the Plan and the holders of such securities will receive no recovery. This has caused a significant negative reaction from our stockholders and may adversely affect our ability to attract new stockholders in the future. The conduct of our business may be restricted under the Bankruptcy Code. The Debtors are operating their businesses as debtors-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. Under applicable bankruptcy law, during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Debtors are required to obtain the approval of the Court prior to engaging in any transaction outside the ordinary course of business for the debtor entities. In connection with any such approval, creditors and other parties in interest may raise objections to such approval and may appear and be heard at any hearing with respect to any such approval. Accordingly, although the Debtors may seek the approval of the Court to sell assets and settle liabilities (including for amounts other than those reflected on the Company’s consolidated financial statements), there can be no assurance that the Court will grant such approvals. The Court also has the authority to oversee and exert control over the Debtors’ ordinary course operations. 14 Table of Contents As a result of the restrictions described above, prior to the Effective Date, our ability to respond timely to changing business and economic conditions may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial. Our on-going restructuring activities may not reduce our losses and cash consumption. We have implemented several expense-related restructurings in recent years. In addition, in September 2005, March 2006, and June 2006 we began to implement restructuring plans aimed at further substantial expense reductions and continue to execute on these plans. See “—Overview—Further Restructurings to Reduce Expenses”. Although we will seek to implement these actions in a manner that does not materially reduce revenue or impair our ability to compete successfully, we cannot be certain that these outcomes will not occur or that these actions will accomplish their intended objective of reducing our losses and cash consumption. Substantially all of the restructuring charges have required or will require the outlay of cash. We are operating under new leadership that will cause strategic and operational changes in our business. On January 27, 2006, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. Dennis McKenna as our new President and Chief Executive Officer in order to effectuate the turnaround of our business. In addition, our Board of Directors appointed Mr. McKenna as a director and Chairman of the Board on February 1, 2006. Also on February 27, 2006 Mr. Jeffery Zellmer, the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Warren Pratt, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, resigned. Ms. Kathy Lanterman, the Company’s Vice President and Controller, was appointed the new Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. We are currently in a transition period as a result of these leadership changes. We may continue to have strategic, operational or leadership changes to our business in the future and we cannot assure you that such strategic, operational or leadership changes, if any, will lead to an improvement of our business and financial condition. There can also be no assurance that any such strategic, operational or leadership changes will not lead to a further deterioration of our business or financial condition. We may not be able to raise additional capital in the future. In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing to fund our business or repay our debt, and we cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, if funds are raised by incurring further debt, our operations and finances may become subject to further restrictions and we may be required to limit our service or product development activities or other operations, or otherwise modify our business strategy. If we fail to comply with financial or other covenants required in connection with such a financing, our creditors may be able to exercise remedies that could substantially impair our ability to operate. In addition, if we obtain additional funds by selling any of our equity securities or if we issue equity derivative securities in connection with obtaining debt financing, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution, or the equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the common stock. Our success is dependent on continued revenue growth from newer product families. The SGI Altix family of servers and superclusters based on the Intel Itanium 2 processor and the Linux operating system was introduced in January 2003 and additional products in this line were added during fiscal 2004. In addition, our SGI Altix XE family of cluster products was introduced in June 2006. Our Linux-based systems sales declined by 40% in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005. Risks associated with these newer product families include dependence on Intel in terms of price, supply, dependability, performance, product roadmaps and timely access to design specifications, and continued support for and development of the Itanium 2 and Xeon processor families; the availability of Linux applications optimized for the 64-bit Itanium platform or our scalable systems architecture; acceptance of the Linux operating system in demanding environments; and competition from other suppliers of Intel-based servers, including clusters of low-end servers. These clusters are rapidly increasing as an important competitive factor in the high performance server market and have had a negative effect on our revenues and our gross margins. Future revenue growth from our newer product families is especially important because revenues from our 15 Table of Contents traditional MIPS and IRIX products and maintenance business are expected to continue to decline. Our ability to achieve future revenue growth will depend significantly on the market success of these newer product families in servers and storage as well as our ability to generate sales to match or replace revenues generated from large sales transactions in prior periods. If one or more of the product lines were to fail in the market, it could have an adverse effect on our business and liquidity. Our product strategy and business would be adversely affected by any delay, discontinuance or decreased competitiveness of the microprocessors we use. Our core products are based on system architectures that have been developed by working closely with partners for optimization on our products. Our product strategy and business depend on the continued availability and competitiveness of the microprocessors that we use and would be adversely affected by any further delays and/or discontinuance of these processor families. In addition, we may incur penalties under long-term contracts that require the delivery of future products. It is also important to our competitive position that our chosen microprocessors be competitive as to performance as well as price. Microprocessor technology changes rapidly, and in order to be competitive we must keep pace with those changes. Although we have taken steps with the introduction of new products to mitigate our dependence on a single microprocessor, the transition will take some time, and the migration may be expensive and time consuming. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if the carrying value of our long-lived assets became impaired. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and goodwill, whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable. Such events or circumstances may include the discontinuation of a product or product line, a sudden or consistent decline in the forecast for a product, changes in technology or in the way an asset is being used, a history of operating or cash flow losses or an adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate. Our long-lived asset impairment review would be based on a cash flow analysis and would require judgment with respect to many factors, including future cash flows, changes in technology, the continued success of product lines and future volume and revenue and expense growth rates. It is possible that our estimates of cash flows may change within the next twelve months resulting in the need to reassess the carrying value of our long-lived assets for impairment. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant estimates and assumptions at many points during the analysis. Our estimated future cash flows are based on assumptions that are consistent with our annual planning process and include estimates for revenue and operating margins and future economic and market conditions. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable at the time, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. As a result, we may incur substantial non-cash impairment charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 our operating results were adversely impacted by an $8 million charge for the impairment of goodwill associated with our Products reporting unit. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information on our goodwill impairment assessment. Our financial reporting controls and procedures may be impaired by our restructuring activities and attrition. The uncertainties surrounding our business prospects, the Chapter 11 filing, and our continuing restructuring actions have increased the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our annualized attrition rates have increased significantly in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005. There is no guarantee that we can retain highly qualified employees, or that we will be able to hire highly qualified candidates, as new skills are needed. In addition, while we will strive to ensure that material weaknesses do not develop in our internal controls due to headcount reductions or other factors, there is no guarantee that our internal controls will be unaffected by the restructuring actions or increasing attrition. If material weaknesses develop and we are unable to efficiently and effectively address these matters, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting. We are increasingly dependent on our key suppliers. Our strategy of developing system products based on industry-standard technologies has increased our technical dependence on Intel and other key suppliers. It is therefore important that we receive appropriate development cooperation from our suppliers, and that the products from these suppliers continue to evolve in ways that support the differentiation that we seek to bring to our products. In particular, our Altix family depends on continued component availability, dependability, quality, performance and price/performance. Our financial performance and business prospects would be adversely affected if our suppliers were to reduce their support, including to supply components on terms that enable us to compete effectively for sales with substantial price sensitivity. 16 Table of Contents The competitiveness of our system products, particularly our servers, is also significantly affected by the availability on our platform of third-party software applications that are important to customers in our target markets. The success of our Linux-based products and services depends on, among other things, the growth of the Linux market, the acceptance of Linux solutions by customers in demanding environments, the availability of Linux applications optimized for the 64-bit Itanium 2 platform or our scalable systems architecture and our dependence on acceptance of SGI-developed code by the open source community and by Linux distributors with whom we partner. Our dependence on key suppliers, including sole source suppliers, may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on both single source and sole source suppliers for many of the components we use in our products. For example, we currently utilize microprocessors from a sole source supplier in our Altix family of servers and superclusters and have designed our system architecture to optimize performance using their processors. If we were to utilize an alternative microprocessor, the transition would require an alternative design, which would be costly and cause significant delays in the development of future products, adversely affecting our business and operating results. Our business is dependent on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers’ ability to deliver such components and products in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. In addition, we have benefited from favorable discounts on certain components from key suppliers for selected transactions. Our business could be adversely affected, for example, if suppliers fail to meet product release schedules, if we experience supply constraints, if we fail to negotiate favorable pricing or if we experience any other interruption or delay in the supply chain that interferes with our ability to manufacture our products or manage our inventory levels. Risks also include limited bargaining flexibility, the possibility of charges for excess and obsolete inventory and risks involved with end of life buys from single source and sole source suppliers. We are currently focused on maximizing our working capital by working closely with our suppliers and tightly managing our overall supply chain. In addition, we are in the process of transitioning to an alternate supplier to act as our foundry for certain key integrated circuits for new products planned for 2008 and later. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the transition without significant incremental cash impact. We may not be able to retain and attract qualified employees. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, sales and marketing and management personnel. The uncertainties surrounding our business prospects, the Chapter 11 Cases and our continuing restructuring actions have increased the challenges of retaining world-class talent. Our annualized attrition rates have increased significantly in fiscal 2006 compared with fiscal 2005. Although we have put programs in place to encourage employee retention, there is no guarantee that we can retain highly qualified employees or that we will be able to hire highly qualified candidates as new skills are needed. We are dependent on sales to the U.S. government. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales to the U.S. government, either directly by us or through system integrators and other resellers. Sales to the government present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruptions due to changes in appropriation and spending patterns. Our U.S. government business is also highly sensitive to changes in the U.S. government’s national and international priorities and budgeting. Events like Operation Iraqi Freedom and the continuing war on terrorism may affect funding for our programs or result in changes in government programs or spending priorities that may adversely affect our business. In addition, the U.S. government can typically terminate or modify its contracts with us at any time for its convenience. Our government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other requirements. Failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Any disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with the U.S. government could have an adverse impact on us. A portion of our business requires security clearances from the U.S. government. These arrangements are subject to periodic review by customer agencies and the Defense Security Service of the Department of Defense. 17 Table of Contents We expect our operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate for a number of reasons from period to period, and we have consistently fallen short of our forecasts in recent years. Decreases in revenue can arise from any number of factors, including decreased demand, supply constraints, delays in the availability of new products, transit interruptions, overall economic conditions, competitive factors, military or terrorist actions, or natural disasters. Demand can also be adversely affected by concerns specifically associated with our financial health and by product and technology transition announcements by us or our competitors. The timing of customer acceptance of certain large-scale server products may also have a significant effect on periodic operating results. Margins are heavily influenced by revenue levels, mix considerations, including geographic concentrations, the mix of product and service revenue, industry price trends, competitive pricing pressures (particularly for high visibility accounts) and the mix of server and desktop product revenue as well as the mix of configurations within these product categories. As a result of the concentration of sales in the third month of each quarter, developments late in a quarter can have a significant impact on that period’s results. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The computer industry is highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and constantly improving price/performance. Most of our competitors have substantially greater technical, marketing and financial resources. They also generally have a larger installed base of customers and a wider range of available applications software. Competition may result in significant discounting and lower gross margins. In addition, as our Linux-based systems business grows, the number of our competitors may grow commensurate with the increased market opportunity. An important competitive development in our market has been the emergence of networked clusters of commodity computers from suppliers like Dell Computer as an alternative to our midrange products. These clusters have grown at a faster than anticipated rate and are taking an increasing share of the high-performance computing market. These clustered systems may not be subject to U.S. export regulations, which may make them more attractive to certain international customers. See “—Many of our international sales require export licenses”. Although we have introduced a cluster product, we face significant competition in this market. Our typical concentration of sales at the end of our fiscal quarters makes period-to-period financial results less predictable. Over half of each quarter’s product revenue results from orders booked and shipped during the third month, and disproportionately in the latter half of that month. This makes the forecasting of revenue inherently uncertain and can produce pressure on our internal infrastructure during the third month of a quarter. Because we plan our operating expenses, many of which are relatively fixed in the short term, on expected revenue, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a period’s results to be substantially below expectations. We are subject to the risks of international operations. We generate a large portion of our revenue outside the United States, and as a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business internationally. International transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and the widely differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. War, terrorism or public health issues in the regions of the world in which we do business have caused and may continue to cause damage or disruption to commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties. Such events could adversely affect our business in any number of ways, such as decreasing demand for our products, increasing our costs of operations, making it difficult to deliver products to customers, and causing delays and other problems in our supply chain. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could also suffer due to other international factors, including but not limited to: changes in a country’s economic and labor conditions; currency fluctuations; compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; changes in tax laws; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated abroad; fluctuations in transportation costs; natural and medical disasters; and trade protection measures. Many of our international sales require export licenses. Our sales to customers outside the United States are subject to U.S. export regulations. Sales of many of our high-end products require clearance and export licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce under these regulations. Our international sales would be adversely affected if such regulations were tightened, or if they are not modified over time to reflect the increasing performance of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to foreign customers. In addition, we could be subject to regulations, fines and penalties for violations of import and export regulations such as our products being shipped directly or through a third-party to certain countries. Such violations could result in penalties, including prohibiting us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially and adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis. Meeting our objectives for the future will require that our recently introduced products achieve success in the marketplace and that we succeed in the timely development and introduction of more successful new products. Product transitions are a recurring part of our business. A number of risks are inherent in this process. The development of new technology and products is increasingly complex and uncertain, which increases the risk of delays. The introduction of new computer systems requires close collaboration and continued technological advancement involving multiple hardware and software design teams, internal manufacturing teams, outside suppliers of key components such as semiconductors and outsource manufacturing partners. The failure of any one of these elements could cause our products under development to fail to meet specifications or to miss the aggressive timetables that we establish. There is no assurance that development or acceptance of our new systems will not be affected by delays in this process. In addition, from time to time we receive co-funding for certain development efforts and reduction or elimination of such funding could adversely affect the development and introduction of new systems. Our product strategy and business depend on the continued availability and competitiveness of the Itanium 2 processor family and would be adversely affected by any delays and/or discontinuance of this processor family. See “—Our product strategy and business would be adversely affected by any delay, discontinuance or decreased competitiveness of the microprocessors we use”. In addition, we may incur penalties under long-term contracts that require the delivery of future products. Short product life cycles place a premium on our ability to manage the transition to new products. We often announce new products in the early part of a quarter while the product is in the final stages of development and testing, and seek to manufacture and ship the product in volume during the same quarter. Our results could be adversely affected by such factors as development delays, the release of products to manufacturing late in any quarter, quality or yield problems experienced by suppliers, variations in product costs and excess inventories of older products and components. In addition, some customers may delay purchasing existing products in anticipation of new product introductions. Most products are upgraded during their product life cycle. The ability to upgrade products in a timely fashion is necessary to compete in the computer industry. Delay in introducing updates and upgrades can adversely affect acceptance and demand for product. We may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We routinely receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other rights covering our products and technologies. Based upon our evaluation, we may take no action or may seek to obtain a license. We are in discussions with several parties regarding the potential use of our patents, which may result in licensing fees, royalties or a one-time settlement. If negotiations are not successful, we may need to litigate. If we were to litigate, we could incur significant costs and we might not prevail in our case. We are in discussions with several parties that have asserted intellectual property infringement claims. In any given case there is a risk that a license will not be available on terms that we consider reasonable, or that litigation will ensue. We expect that, as the number of hardware and software patents issued continues to increase, and as competition in the markets we address intensifies, the volume of these intellectual property claims will also increase. In addition, our growing visibility as a supplier of Linux-based systems and as a participant in the open source software community increases our risk of becoming embroiled in the intellectual property disputes concerning these subjects, such as the current widely reported litigations between SCO Group on the one hand and IBM and Red Hat on the other. We received a notice from SCO Group purporting to terminate, as of October 14, 2003, our fully paid license to certain UNIX operating system-related code, under which we distribute our IRIX operating system, on the basis that we have breached the terms of such license. We believe that the SCO Group’s allegations are without merit and that our fully paid license is non-terminable. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that this dispute with SCO Group will not escalate into litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on us, or that SCO Group’s intellectual property claims will not impair the market acceptance of the Linux operating system. On August 3, 2006, LG Electronics, Inc. (“LGE”) filed a motion (the “LGE Motion”) in the Chapter 11 Cases of 19 Table of Contents the Debtors seeking relief from the automatic stay pursuant to section 362(d)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code so that LGE may proceed with certain patent infringement claims against the Company in the appropriate district court and seek damages for alleged pre- and post-petition infringements of certain of LGE’s patents. The LGE Motion also requests that the Court determine that the automatic stay does not apply to LGE’s ability to commence a proceeding against us in respect of our alleged continuing, post-petition infringement of LGE’s patents. LGE also filed proofs of claims in the Chapter 11 Cases against each of the Debtors in connection with the alleged patent infringement. On August 25, 2006, the Debtors objected to LGE’s proofs of claim. The Debtors and LGE resolved the LGE Motion by stipulation dated September 8, 2006, and entered by the Court on September 8, 2006. In the stipulation, LGE agreed to withdraw the LGE Motion, agreed not to file any objection to confirmation of the Debtors’ plan of reorganization, and agreed to withdraw all proofs of claim asserting pre-petition infringement except the one filed against the Company. The Debtors agreed that LGE claims alleging patent infringement first arising after the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases could be adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction other than the Court after confirmation of the plan of reorganization. On September 26, 2006, we filed a motion to estimate the LGE claims at $0.00 for purposes of allowance and distribution under the Plan. A hearing on this motion is scheduled for November 1, 2006. We do not believe that LGE’s claims of patent infringement are meritorious and we intend to oppose them. See “Legal Proceedings”. On April 27, 2004, SGI received a letter from counsel for Patriot Scientific Corporation listing six patents purportedly owned by Patriot concerning various microprocessor technologies. The letter did not name any specific products of SGI but noted that Patriot had commenced litigation against six companies in two separate litigations, including Intel. On September 23, 2005, SGI received a follow up letter from Alliacense, which purported to be a successor entity to Patriot. The September 2005 letter stated that Alliacense had reached agreement with several companies, including Intel and AMD, for licenses to the subject patents. The letter did not identify any specific products of SGI that Alliacense believed to infringe any of the subject patents; however, the letter states Alliacense’s belief that “virtually every product manufactured today utilizing microprocessors or embedded microprocessors” will require a portfolio license from Alliacense. We believe that Alliancense’s assertions are without merit. See “Legal Proceedings”. We will not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards. We currently have over $1 billion in U.S. net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses. Most of these net operating loss carryforwards were incurred prior to SGI’s Chapter 11 reorganization and therefore are subject to limitation under U.S. and state income tax laws. Pursuant to these loss limitation rules, the utilization of net operating loss and credit carryforwards of a loss corporation are limited if during a testing period (usually three years) there is greater than a 50% cumulative shift in the ownership of its stock. As a result of the bankruptcy reorganization, SGI exchanged some of its debt for common stock. This exchange resulted in more than a 50% cumulative shift in the stock ownership of SGI. Accordingly, SGI’s ability to utilize its net operating losses will be significantly limited as provided under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. This limitation would reduce our income after taxes, thereby affecting our cash balances and liquidity, if in any given future fiscal period taxable profits are in excess of the restricted losses available for offset. Compliance or the failure to comply with environmental laws could impact our future net earnings. Certain of our products and operations are regulated under various laws in the U.S., Europe and other parts of the world relating to the environment, including laws and regulations that limit the use of certain substances in our products or require us to recycle our products when they become waste. While it is our policy to ensure that our operations and products comply with environmental laws at all times, any failure to so comply with environmental laws or customer requirements relating to such laws could require us to stop producing or selling certain products, recall noncompliant products, or otherwise incur substantial costs in order to acquire costly equipment to make other operational changes in order to achieve compliance. Although environmental costs and liabilities have not materially affected us to date, due to the nature of our operations and legal developments affecting our products and operations, environmental costs and liabilities could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial position in the future. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We track regulatory developments that may impact our business and devote substantial resources toward developing strategies for compliance with new requirements as they are enacted. For example, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and anticipated requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including RoHS, which regulates 20 Table of Contents the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment put on the market in the European Union on or after July 1, 2006. Due to these restrictions, we have decided not to ship our remarketed products from the United States to Europe after July 1, 2006, and we are completing our work with our suppliers to assure RoHS compliance with respect to our other products. If a regulatory authority determines that one of our products is not RoHS-compliant, we may have to redesign and re-qualify certain components to meet RoHS requirements, which could subject us to increased engineering expenses in this process, and could face shipment delays, penalties and possible product detentions or seizures. We may face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, such as the European Union Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”), which makes producers of electrical and electronic equipment, including computers, responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Legislation similar to RoHS and WEEE has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Japan and China. These and other environmental laws may become stricter over time and require us to incur substantial compliance costs. RoHS and WEEE are being implemented by individual countries in the European Union and it is likely that each jurisdiction will implement, interpret or enforce RoHS and WEEE somewhat differently. In addition, final guidance from individual jurisdictions may impose different or additional responsibilities on us. Our failure to comply with WEEE and ROHS, contractual obligations relating to WEEE and RoHS or other environmental laws could result in our being directly or indirectly liable for costs, fines or penalties and third-party claims, and could jeopardize our ability to conduct business in countries in the European Union. Our business is subject to market risk. In the normal course of business, our financial position is routinely subject to a variety of risks, including market risk associated with interest rate movements and currency rate movements on non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, as well as collectibility of accounts receivable. We regularly assess these risks and have established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, we do not anticipate material losses in these areas. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 