ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider any of the below risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. We expect demands on our working capital due to our increased bookings volume, in particular for large sales transactions. Over the past several quarters we have seen a significant increase in our backlog. In addition, we have recently received orders for and have been awarded a number of significant contracts for large sales transactions. Our working capital requirements are such that we often must buy materials in support of our backlog requirements well before receiving cash or recognizing revenue for such backlog. We may also incur expenses purchasing components we use in our products or the expense of manufacturing products during a period in which we have not received a firm order or payment for those products. We would incur these expenses in anticipation of receiving future orders for these products. In addition, the orders or contracts for which we incur expenses before receiving revenue may be reduced or changed, and we may not be able to recoup the expenses we have incurred. Because these cash outflows may occur in a period during which we will not receive payment for the orders, our liquidity may be compromised, impacting our ability to timely pay our vendors, our cash balance may be significantly reduced in that period and our operating results for that period may suffer. We may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on commercially attractive terms or at all, which would restrict our growth and impair our ability to operate. We may need to obtain additional financing to fund both the operating and non-operating requirements of our business, make acquisitions that are important to our strategy, or repay amounts outstanding under our financing facility. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain any necessary financing, or our inability to obtain such financing on commercially attractive terms, could materially harm our business and the price of our stock. We require the approval of our existing lenders to take on additional debt or to modify the significant economic terms of our existing debt, and such approval may not be forthcoming. In the event that our cash flows, together with available borrowings, are insufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may not be able to timely pay our obligations or service our debt unless we reduce planned capital expenditures, sell additional assets, seek other sources of capital or take other cost reduction actions. If we raise funds by incurring further debt, our operations and finances would likely become subject to further restrictions. If we fail to comply with these further restrictions, our creditors may be able to exercise remedies that substantially impair our ability to operate. Because we adopted fresh-start accounting, our financial condition and operating results from and after September 29, 2006 are not comparable to the financial condition and operating results reflected in the historical consolidated financial statements of the Predecessor Company. As a result of adopting SOP 97-2, we must defer recognition of significant amounts of revenue. These factors make it difficult to understand our cash flow dynamics and may deter investors. If we obtain additional funds by selling equity securities or if we issue equity derivative securities in connection with obtaining financing, our existing stockholders may suffer dilution and equity securities we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common stock. 21 Table of Contents We have a history of losses, and we may not become profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to attain profitability on a sustained basis would harm our business and the value of our common stock. For many years, we have incurred substantial net operating losses and have failed to achieve positive cash flows from operations. During fiscal 2008, we recognized an operating loss of $127 million. We expect to incur losses and negative operating cash flows over the next few quarters. Although we are undertaking cost reduction actions in order to reach profitability and cash breakeven more quickly, if our revenue does not increase or if we fail to reduce our expenses to an amount less than our gross margins, we will not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. A number of factors could preclude us from successfully bringing costs and expenses in line with our gross margins, including unplanned expenses, the inability to forecast business activities accurately, further decline in our revenue and the impact on current revenues of anticipated future product releases. In addition, a substantial portion of our service revenue comes from service related to legacy systems, which is the most profitable segment of our service business. If this should decline faster than we anticipate, our losses would increase. We are continuing to implement initiatives aimed at improving revenue and margins for our core systems products and global services and are accelerating initiatives to lower our costs of operations to reduce our losses and hasten our return to profitability. These initiatives and cost reductions efforts will be designed to improve focus on our core business objectives and key geographic markets. Our business could be adversely affected by the initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Our failure to operate profitably or to achieve positive cash flows on a quarterly or annual basis would harm our business and significantly diminish the value of our common stock. If our stock continues to have extremely low trading volume or our stock price continues to be volatile, stockholders may only be able to resell our shares at a loss or at a price below the most recently-quoted share price. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market on October 23, 2006. From October 23, 2006 through June 27, 2008, the price of our common stock has fluctuated between $5.20 and $30.66 per share, with an average daily trading volume of approximately 27,290 shares. Because of our extremely low trading volume, our stock price is very volatile. Also, volatility in our stock price may impact stockholders’ ability to sell their shares at a profit. In addition to general market volatility and our low trading volume, many factors, a number of which are beyond our control, may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our stock, including: • new products or services offered by us or our competitors; • failure to meet public expectations as to revenue or other financial metrics; • actual or unanticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • unanticipated actions that could be taken by some or all of our large stockholders, some of which are also our majority lenders, which given our low trading volumes could have an impact on our stock price; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our stock or the stock of our competitors; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; and • issuances of debt or equity securities. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Capital Market and companies in our industry have experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Broad market and industry 22 Table of Contents factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would harm our business. We expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate significantly. These fluctuations will make our operating results difficult to predict and could cause them to fall below expectations, resulting in declines in our stock price. Our historical operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period due to a variety of factors, and our future operating results are likely to fluctuate as well. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results or the nature or timing of fluctuations in those results as an indication of our future performance. Also, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs near the end of the quarter. Thus, delays in the completion of sales can make our operating results difficult to predict. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who may follow our stock, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Further, if our revenue increases or our operating results improve during a particular period but that increase or improvement is a one-time event or is not representative of a trend, the price of our common stock may fluctuate. Additional factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • the timing and magnitude of shipments and the timing of installations and acceptance of our products, particularly those relating to large transactions; • changes in demand, sales cycles and prices for our products and services; • our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet end-user requirements; • the timing of product releases, enhancements or announcements by us, our suppliers or our competitors; • changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants or competitors’ discounting of product prices; • government budget and appropriations processes and spending cycles; • the revenue mix between our services and products and among our products; • our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; • changes in the gross margin for any of our products; • the availability, costs and timeliness of delivery of components obtained from third parties that are used in our products, the loss of one or more of our suppliers or a reduction in the capacity of one or more of our suppliers; • our inability to control operating expenses; • variability in our ability to recognize revenue from sales resulting from application of SOP 97-2, which requires the deferral of revenue under certain circumstances; and • the potential impact on our business of the general U.S. economic downturn. 23 Table of Contents Our success depends on growth in bookings for sales of our clustered computing and storage products. We have changed the focus of our business from the sale of our legacy high-performance servers and visualization systems, which were based on our MIPS RISC processors and IRIX operating systems and associated services, to our core products, which include high-performance clustered computing systems based on the Intel Xeon processors and the Linux operating system, high-performance shared memory computing systems based on the Intel Itanium processor and the Linux operating system, storage solutions, and associated services. We expect revenue from our legacy products and the customer support services for these products to continue to decline. Since the beginning of fiscal 2007, we have introduced Altix ICE, our first clustered computing product designed for the HPC market, expanded our Altix XE family of clustered computing products, and introduced a new visualization product and strategy. Our ability to achieve our overall revenue, gross margin and profitability objectives will depend significantly on the success of our core products, including these newly-introduced products, and associated professional and customer support services. Our ability to sustain and increase the rate of acceptance and revenue growth of these products depends on numerous factors, including: • competition from storage system vendors and suppliers of low-end and mid-range server clusters; • the performance of our core products in the field; • our ability to attract new customers that value our differentiated product features; • the quality and competitiveness of our support and consulting services; • the continued availability of dependable, low-cost processors, including Intel’s processor families; • our ability to integrate our products into customers’ existing Linux and other operating environments; and • continued growth in the demand for the Linux operating system for demanding computing environments. We may be unable to maintain our overall gross margin. A failure to maintain our overall gross margin would negatively affect our financial performance and stock price. Our overall gross margin for our business has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: • demand for our products and services; • the revenue mix among our products and between products and services; • discount levels and price competition; • our average system order size and end-user mix; • our ability to maintain sufficient levels of supplier credits in support of strategic deals; • the cost of components and service personnel; and • new product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors. Due to these and other factors, we may be unable to maintain our overall gross margin. As we enter into new markets and introduce new products and services, our ability to forecast our overall gross margin and anticipate the effect of these and other factors diminishes. Reductions in our overall gross margin would negatively affect our financial performance and could lead to a decline in the price of our stock. 24 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases single-source suppliers, and any disruption or termination of these supply arrangements could delay shipments of our products and could materially and adversely affect our revenue and relationships with current and prospective end users. We purchase the hardware for our storage products primarily from two suppliers, and purchase several of the components of our server products, from a small number of suppliers or a single supplier. This reliance on a limited number of suppliers involves several risks, including: • supplier product and credit capacity constraints; • price increases and limited bargaining flexibility; • establishing collaborative relationship with suppliers; • timely production and delivery; and • component quality. We may be unable to obtain enough of these components in the future, and the prices of these components may increase. In addition, problems with respect to component quality and timeliness of deliveries may occur, which may delay customer acceptance and our ability to recognize revenue, may cause us to incur additional costs, or cause us to incur penalties under customer contracts that require timely delivery. In addition, our suppliers could enter into exclusive agreements with, or acquire or be acquired by, one of our competitors, increase their prices, refuse to sell their products to us, discontinue products or go out of business. Disruption or termination of the supply of our product components could require us to alter the design of our products to accommodate replacement components, and would require our personnel to spend significant amounts of time working with customers and new suppliers to minimize customer inconvenience and the down time of our products. Any disruption or termination of supply could seriously harm our relationships with current and prospective customers. Sales to or funded by the United States government, which account for a substantial portion of our revenue, are subject to disruptions and delays. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue directly from U.S. government entities. In addition, many of our scientific and research customers depend on U.S. government funding for their information technology budgets. As a result, a majority of our revenue depends on sales to or funded by the U.S. government. Sales to or funded by the government present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruptions and delays due to changes in appropriation and spending patterns. Our government business is also highly sensitive to changes in the U.S. government’s national and international priorities and budgeting. Changes in the continuing war on terrorism may affect funding for our programs or result in changes in government programs or spending priorities that may harm our business. In addition, the U.S. government can typically terminate or modify its contracts with us at any time for its convenience. Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other requirements. Failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Any disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with the U.S. government or entities funded by the U.S. government would materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and the price of our stock. 25 Table of Contents Our business would be adversely affected by any production delay, discontinuance or decreased competitiveness of the processors we use. Our core products incorporate system architectures designed for specific processors that we obtain from third parties, including Intel. We require the assistance of processor suppliers in connection with our technical development activities, and we rely on the continued development of their products so that they remain competitive in terms of performance and cost. As a result, our business depends on the continued availability, reliability and competitiveness of the processors that we use and would be severely harmed by production delays or discontinuance of these processor families. It is also important to our competitive position that our chosen processors be competitive in quality and performance as well as price. Any increase in the cost of the processors that we use in our products could make our products less competitive or lower our margins. Processor technology changes rapidly, and in order to be competitive we must keep pace with those changes. Shortages in processor supply and delays in new product introductions or product improvements could result in significant, widespread delays in the shipment of our systems, which would severely harm our operating results and stock price. Although we have taken steps with the introduction of new products to mitigate our dependence on a single processor, the transition will take some time, and the mitigation will be expensive and time-consuming. We maintain relatively low inventory and acquire components only as needed; as a result, if shortages of these components arise, we may not be able to secure enough components to build new products to meet customer demand. We maintain relatively low inventory and acquire components only as forecasted, and do not always enter into long-term supply contracts for these components. As a result, our ability to respond to customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability or terms and pricing of these components. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical components in the future as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. Many of the other components required to build our systems are occasionally in short supply and subject to industry allocations. If shortages or delays arise, the prices of these components may increase or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may fail to comply with our debt covenants, and this noncompliance could place us in default and lead to termination of our facility and acceleration of our indebtedness. Our current financing facility, as amended, provides up to $152.5 million of financing, consisting of a $132.5 million term loan that matures in October 2011 and a $20 million revolving line of credit. As of June 27, 2008, we had borrowed the entire $132.5 million under the term loan. Monarch and Watershed, the two largest holders of our common stock, are the two largest lenders under the facility. Under the terms of this facility, we are required to comply with certain covenants, including maximum levels of capital expenditures, minimum levels of cash and cash availability and, beginning in fiscal 2010, maximum leverage ratio and minimum levels of EBITDA. We may be unable to remain in compliance with these covenants, and noncompliance could lead to a default under the terms of the facility. In the event that we default, the facility could be terminated and our obligation to repay the indebtedness could be accelerated, which would seriously harm our financial condition and operating results and could adversely impact our ability to obtain replacement financing. 26 Table of Contents A limited number of stockholders own a large percentage of our shares and are the majority lenders under our financing facility, giving them significant influence over certain corporate matters and interests that may diverge from the interests of other stockholders. A limited number of institutional investors, which beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock, also are the majority lenders under our financing facility. These investors may have interests that diverge from the interests of our other stockholders, and due to their stock ownership they may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of corporate transactions, including a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. If we fail to manage the introduction of new products or enhancements effectively, we may fail to increase, or may lose, market share. Short product life cycles in our markets place a premium on our ability to enhance our products and manage transition to our new products. As we introduce new or enhanced products, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and ensure that sufficient supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customer demand. In addition, we must train and manage our sales force effectively in order to ensure that our sales force is aware of, and prepared to communicate to customers effectively about, the scheduled availability of and the improvements and features offered by the new products or enhancements. Development delays, excess costs, supplier quality or yield problems, variations in product and component costs and excess inventories of older products and components could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to the risks of international operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales shipped to customer locations outside the United States, with international revenue representing 45%, 46% and 40% of our total revenue in fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. As a result, our business is subject to the risks associated with doing business internationally. International transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising from stringent contractual terms and conditions and the widely differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. War, terrorism or public health issues in the regions of the world in which we do business may cause damage or disruption to commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties. These events could adversely affect our business in any number of ways, such as decreasing demand for our products, increasing our operating expenses, making it difficult to deliver products to customers, and causing delays and other problems in our supply chain. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could also suffer due to other international factors, including but not limited to: • currency fluctuations; • changes in a country’s economic and labor conditions; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad; • changes in tax laws; • changes in employment law; • changes in the regulatory or legal environment; • fluctuations in transportation costs; • natural and medical disasters; and • trade sanctions and protection measures. 27 Table of Contents We face intense competition and expect competition to increase in the future, which could hinder the growth of or reduce our revenue or customer base. The server and storage markets are highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and constantly improving price/performance ratios. Our primary competitors include IBM and Hewlett Packard and with respect to our storage business, Network Appliance and EMC. We depend in part on maintaining sufficient levels of supplier credits in order to compete for strategic deals. If the magnitude of these credits were to become restricted either due to a strategy or regulatory change, it could impact both our gross margins and our ability to compete. Most of our competitors have substantially greater technical, marketing and financial resources and brand recognition. Some of our competitors also have a larger installed base of customers than we do. Particularly in the storage market, there are many new entrants that are competing with us and rapidly introducing new products and technologies. In addition, clustered computing systems comprise a significant percentage of the HPC market, and an increasing number of vendors are competing for this share of the market. Also, as the market for Linux-based systems grows, the number of competitors in that market is likely to increase. Intensifying competition in these markets and other markets in which we compete or that we may decide to enter may result in lower prices and thus lower gross margins, and our financial performance may suffer as a result. If we are unable to develop new hardware and software products upgrades and enhancements and to respond to technological changes, we may fail to increase, or we may lose, market share. Our future growth depends on our successful development and introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products in order to meet customer needs and to address the rapidly-changing competitive landscapes in the markets in which we compete. We have recently introduced new products in the clustered computing and storage markets, including our recently introduced visualization products and our Industrial Strength Linux Environment initiative and we continue to spend significant resources on research and development in an effort to develop and introduce new hardware and software products, software enhancements and upgrades. The introduction of new clustered computing and storage products requires close collaboration among, and continued development of new technology by, multiple hardware and software design teams, internal manufacturing teams, outside suppliers of key components such as semiconductors, and contract manufacturers. The failure to collaborate and develop new technology effectively could cause our products under development to fail to meet specifications or to miss the timetables that we establish. Our products must interoperate in our customers’ computing environments, which often have unique specifications, use multiple protocol standards, incorporate products from multiple vendors and contain legacy components. We must be able to modify our products quickly to meet an end-user’s unique environment, and as network, hardware and software technologies change we must be able to adapt rapidly. If we find errors in the software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ computing environments or problematic network configurations or settings, we may have to modify our products so that they will interoperate with our customers’ computing environments. Failure to quickly modify our products and adapt to technological change could cause longer installation times for our products, delays of future purchases of our products or cancellations of orders, any of which would seriously harm our operating results. If we fail to manage future expansion in current and new markets effectively, our business would be harmed. We intend to focus additional resources in the high-performance data management sectors in our vertical markets in order to increase our penetration and strengthen our end-user and other relationships in these sectors. This focus will require substantial management attention with respect to managing increasingly complex operations, allocating resources, managing expenditures, developing product roadmaps and recruiting, hiring, training, integrating and retaining highly skilled and motivated 28 Table of Contents individuals. In addition, as we expand into new markets, we may face longer sales and implementation cycles, increased competition and increased pressure on our gross margins. Our operating results and financial condition would be harmed if we are not successful in managing this expansion effectively. A number of our executive officers have only recently been hired and they have limited experience with our business and with working with our management. Robert “Bo” Ewald joined us as our Chief Executive Officer in April 2007. Various other key employees and executive officers have joined us in the last year, including Douglas Britt, Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales, Barbara Stinnett, Senior Vice President of Services and Customer Operations, Shahin Khan, Vice President of Strategy and Development, Irene Qualters, Senior Vice President of Software Engineering and Timothy Pebworth, Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. These key personnel have limited experience with us and with each other, and they may be unable to work together to manage our business effectively or to generate positive operating results. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract and retain highly-qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, it would be more difficult for us to manage and grow our business. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, sales, services and management personnel. It is also critical that we are able to attract and retain technical, sales, service and management personnel with appropriate security clearances in order to enable us to maintain and increase our classified government business. Competition for these and the other personnel we require is intense, and we may fail to attract and retain key executives and employees in the future. To manage our operations, we rely on our key employees and executives, many of whom have many years of experience with our products and customers and the security clearances that are required to work with a number of our product installations. The loss of members of senior management or key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming and disruptive and might be unsuccessful. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations is lengthy and expensive. If we are not able to recruit and retain key personnel effectively, the quality and speed with which our products are developed, marketed and sold, and our ability to respond to technological developments in our industry, would likely be seriously compromised, and our reputation and business would suffer as a result. Our international sales may require export licenses and expose us to additional risks. Our sales to customers outside the United States are subject to U.S. export regulations. Under these regulations, sales of many of our high-end products require clearance and export licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Our international sales would be adversely affected if these regulations were tightened, or if they are not modified over time to reflect the increasing performance of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to non-U.S. customers. In addition, we could be subject to regulations, fines and penalties for violations of import and export regulations if we were found in violation of these regulations. End users could circumvent end-user documentation requirements that are intended to aid in our compliance with export regulations, potentially causing us to violate these regulations. These violations could result in penalties, including prohibitions on us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially harm our business, including our sales to the U.S. government. If we do not maintain strong financial controls, investor confidence in us may decline and our stock price may decline as a result. Maintaining our financial controls has become increasingly complex due to the constant evolution in accounting principles and changes to disclosure laws. Our business has also become more complex with the implementation of fresh-start accounting, and implementing and monitoring the appropriate controls are more complicated. Managing these factors in a cost-effective manner can be challenging, 29 Table of Contents and we may be found to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. For example, in connection with the audit of our fiscal 2007 financial statements, we identified a material weakness related to accounting for income taxes. The material weakness was comprised of the following deficiencies: We did not have adequate resources with sufficient technical expertise to properly account for income taxes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, specifically under fresh start accounting. We did not have adequate policies and procedures in place to ensure that the schedules supporting the income tax provision were properly prepared and reviewed. These deficiencies resulted in a material error in our income tax provision. Any such deficiency or weakness could undermine investor confidence and our stock price could decline as a result. Our products may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet our customers’ performance criteria, which could cause us to incur significant installation or repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, reduce our revenue and make achieving profitability more difficult. We may experience design, manufacturing or component quality problems with our products that require us to replace components or entire products, in order to meet customers’ performance criteria, or to meet continuing performance obligations through customer support services or warranty programs. Our product warranties last up to three years for certain products. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to incur significant expenses to repair or replace a substantial number of products under our product warranties. Further, our customers may discover latent defects in our products that were not apparent when our products were installed. These defects may cause us to incur significant repair or replacement expenses beyond the normal installation period. Most of our customers use our systems for applications that are critical to their organization; as a result system reliability is critical to the success of our products. Any component, manufacturing or design defect or other reliability issues could cause us to lose customers or revenue or could damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. If we fail to offer high-quality customer support, our business would suffer. After our products are deployed within the environments of our end users, our end users depend on our customer support organization to resolve issues relating to our products. The ability to offer high-quality customer support service is critical to the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or any resellers of our products do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers to resolve post-deployment issues quickly, and provide ongoing support, it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing end users and would harm our prospects with potential customers. Further, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our customer support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with providing on-site support. Our failure to maintain high-quality customer support services would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may become involved in intellectual property disputes, which could be expensive, distract our management team and result in reduced ability to use technologies that are important to our business. Monitoring and protecting against the unauthorized use of our patented technologies, products, trademarks and other proprietary rights are expensive, time-consuming and difficult. It is possible that third parties have used or in the future will use our intellectual property without our permission or knowledge. Periodically, we review publicly available information regarding intellectual property being developed by others in order to identify potential violations of our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Third parties in the past have asserted, and will in the future assert, intellectual property infringement claims against us. Future 30 Table of Contents claims, if proved, could require us to pay substantial damages, redesign our existing products or pay fees to obtain cross-license agreements. We expect that, as the number of hardware and software patents issued continues to increase, and as competition in the markets we address intensifies, the volume of intellectual property claims will also increase. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others. Even if we are successful in obtaining licenses or entering into settlement arrangements, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforcing and defending their intellectual property rights than we have. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Open source software is made available to us and to the public by its authors or other third parties under licenses that impose certain obligations on licensees in the event those licensees re-distribute or make derivative works of the open source software. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which might harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may incur substantial costs in order to comply with laws and regulations governing the environment, which could harm our operating results. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for their collection, treatment, recycling and disposal. These laws and regulations have been enacted in a number of jurisdictions in which we sell our products, including various European Union, or EU, member countries. For example, the EU has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directives. RoHS prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, sold after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that sell electrical and electronic equipment in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products. We will need to ensure that we comply with these laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our suppliers also comply with these laws and regulations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse or be unable to purchase our products, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with our compliance with these environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs above our current estimates and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. 31 Table of Contents Shares eligible for sale in the future could negatively affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales may occur. This may make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or the sale of equity securities. As of August 29, 2008, we had 11,595,245 outstanding shares of common stock, all of which are eligible for resale on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Shares held by Monarch, Watershed and Symphony Asset Management LLC and their affiliated entities, which totaled 5,632,194, currently may be sold publicly only in compliance with the volume, manner of sale and other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, unless they are sold pursuant to a registration statement providing for the public resale of shares of common stock held by such holders. Pursuant to our Registration Rights Agreement with Monarch, Watershed and certain other investors, we must, within 21 days after receipt of a written request from certain of these holders, prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-3 providing for the public resale of shares of common stock held by such holders. Our bankruptcy reorganization may negatively impact our future operations and the operations of our subsidiaries. In October 2006, we emerged from a Chapter 11 bankruptcy that has harmed, and may continue to harm, our ability to retain existing customers and suppliers, attract new customers and suppliers, and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations. The publicity surrounding our bankruptcy reorganization had a negative effect on our reputation and operating results. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Stockholders will realize a return on their investment only if our stock price appreciates and they sell. Our policy is to retain earnings to provide funds for the operation and expansion of our business. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that we will do so in the foreseeable future. Our current financing facility prohibits the payment of cash dividends without the consent of our lenders. Any future payment of dividends will depend on our growth, profitability, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable and result in a lower market price for our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • the division of our board into three classes; • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for the advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock; 32 Table of Contents • the elimination of the rights of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and • the required approval of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the inability of stockholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, particularly those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and could potentially result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 