Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward Looking Statements Certain written and oral statements made by our Company and subsidiaries of our Company may constitute “forward-looking statements” as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This includes statements made herein, in our other filings with the SEC, in press releases, and in certain other oral and written presentations. Statements of our intentions, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future, denoted by the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “project,” “imply,” “intend,” “foresee” and similar expressions, are forward-looking statements that reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such risks, uncertainties and assumptions include those described under “Risk Factors” below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements as a result of these factors, among others, many of which are beyond our control. In making these statements, we are not undertaking, and specifically decline to undertake, any obligation to address or update each or any factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and we are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused changes in information contained in previous filings or communications. The risks described below are not the only risks we face, and additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any one or more of the following or other currently unknown factors could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below all risk factors affecting our business that we believe are material, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Industry cyclicality can affect our earnings, especially due to fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken. Profitability in the chicken industry is materially affected by the commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken, which are determined by supply and demand factors. As a result, the chicken industry is subject to cyclical earnings fluctuations. 30 Table of Contents The production of feed ingredients is positively or negatively affected primarily by the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, the agricultural policies of the United States and foreign governments and weather patterns throughout the world. In particular, weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A significant change in weather patterns could affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry’s and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens or deliver products. The cost of corn and soybean meal, our primary feed ingredients, increased significantly from August 2006 to July 2008. Market prices for feed ingredients decreased throughout 2009 and the first six months of 2010, but rose significantly again in the third and fourth quarters of 2010. There can be no assurance that the price of corn or soybean meal will not continue to rise as a result of, among other things, increasing demand for these products around the world and alternative uses of these products, such as ethanol and biodiesel production. High feed ingredient prices have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our operating results, which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, additional non-cash expenses due to impairment of the carrying amounts of certain of our assets. We periodically seek, to the extent available, to enter into advance purchase commitments or financial derivative contracts for the purchase of feed ingredients in an effort to manage our feed ingredient costs. The use of these instruments may not be successful. Outbreaks of livestock diseases in general and poultry diseases in particular, including avian influenza, can significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. We take precautions designed to ensure that our flocks are healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary and environmentally-sound manner. However, events beyond our control, such as the outbreaks of disease, either in our own flocks or elsewhere, could significantly affect demand for our products or our ability to conduct our operations. Furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could also result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our business, reputation and prospects. During the first half of 2006, there was substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H5N1, which has been affecting Asia since 2002 and which has also been found in Europe and Africa. It is widely believed that H5N1 is being spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. There have also been some cases where H5N1 is believed to have passed from birds to humans as humans came into contact with live birds that were infected with the disease. 31 Table of Contents Although highly pathogenic H5N1 has not been identified in North America, there have been outbreaks of low pathogenic strains of avian influenza in North America, and in Mexico outbreaks of both high and low-pathogenic strains of avian influenza are a fairly common occurrence. Historically, the outbreaks of low pathogenic avian influenza have not generated the same level of concern, or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products in certain countries as that associated with the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain. Accordingly, even if the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain does not spread to North or Central America, there can be no assurance that it will not materially adversely affect demand for North or Central American produced poultry internationally and/or domestically, and, if it were to spread to North or Central America, there can be no assurance that it would not significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and/or demand for our products, in each case in a manner having a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and/or prospects. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. Poultry products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E.coli. These pathogens are generally found in the environment, and, as a result, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our processed poultry products. These pathogens can also be introduced as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. These risks may be controlled, although not eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We have little, if any, control over proper handling once the product has been shipped. Illness and death may result if the pathogens are not eliminated at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and prospects. Product liability claims or product recalls can adversely affect our business reputation, expose us to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulators and may not be fully covered by insurance. The packaging, marketing and distribution of food products entail an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We could be required to recall certain of our products in the event of contamination or damage to the products. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our production or processing operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our products. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to perform product recalls, or that product liability claims will not be asserted against us, in the future. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material 32 Table of Contents adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. There can be no assurance that any litigation or reputational injury associated with product recalls will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We currently maintain insurance with respect to certain of these risks, including product liability insurance, property insurance, workers compensation insurance, business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, but in many cases such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and no assurance can be given that such insurance can be maintained in the future on acceptable terms, or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to any such events, or at all. Moreover, even though our insurance coverage may be designed to protect us from losses attributable to certain events, it may not adequately protect us from liability and expenses we incur in connection with such events. Additionally, in the past, two of our insurers encountered financial difficulties and were unable to fulfill their obligations under the insurance policies as anticipated and, separately, two of our other insurers contested coverage with respect to claims covered under policies purchased, forcing us to litigate the issue of coverage before we were able to collect under these policies. Competition in the chicken industry with other vertically integrated poultry companies may make us unable to compete successfully in these industries, which could adversely affect our business. The chicken industry is highly competitive. In both the United States and Mexico, we primarily compete with other vertically integrated chicken companies. In general, the competitive factors in the US chicken industry include: • Price; • Product quality; • Product development; • Brand identification; • Breadth of product line; and • Customer service. 33 Table of Contents Competitive factors vary by major market. In the foodservice market, competition is based on consistent quality, product development, service and price. In the US retail market, we believe that competition is based on product quality, brand awareness, customer service and price. Further, there is some competition with non-vertically integrated further processors in the prepared chicken business. In addition, the bankruptcy proceedings and the associated risks and uncertainties may be used by competitors in an attempt to divert existing customers or may discourage future customers from purchasing products under long-term arrangements. In Mexico, where product differentiation has traditionally been limited, we believe product quality and price have been the most critical competitive factors. As a result of the January 2008 elimination of a tariff with regard to the import of chicken leg quarters into Mexico, greater amounts of chicken have been imported into Mexico from the US. Industry exports of ready-to-cook chicken into Mexico have increased to 816 million pounds, or 12.0% of all US ready-to-cook chicken exports, in calendar year 2009 from 522 million pounds, or 10.0% of all US ready-to-cook chicken exports, in calendar year 2005. These trends, should they continue to increase, could negatively affect the profitability of Mexican chicken producers located in the northern states of Mexico. While we believe the impact on producers, such as us, located in the central states of Mexico should be much less pronounced, we can provide no assurances that the elimination of this tariff or future changes in trade protection measures will not materially and adversely affect our Mexico operations. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could adversely affect our business. Our two largest customers accounted for approximately 17.6% of our net sales in 2010, and our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., accounted for 11.3% of our net sales in 2010. Our business could suffer significant setbacks in revenues and operating income if we lost one or more of our largest customers, or if our customers’ plans and/or markets should change significantly. Our foreign operations pose special risks to our business and operations. We have significant operations and assets located in Mexico and may participate in or acquire operations and assets in other foreign countries in the future. Foreign operations are subject to a number of special risks, including among others: • Currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Trade barriers; • Exchange controls; • Expropriation; and • Changes in laws and policies, including tax laws and laws governing foreign-owned operations. 34 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations have adversely affected us in the past. Exchange rate fluctuations or one or more other risks may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations in the future. Our operations in Mexico are conducted through subsidiaries organized under the laws of Mexico. We may rely in part on intercompany loans and distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries, including trade creditors, will generally have priority as to the assets of our subsidiaries over our claims. Additionally, the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make payments and distributions to us will be subject to, among other things, Mexican law. In the past, these laws have not had a material adverse effect on the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make these payments and distributions. However, laws such as these may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make these payments and distributions in the future. Disruptions in international markets and distribution channels could adversely affect our business. Historically, we have targeted international markets to generate additional demand for our products. In particular, given US customers’ general preference for white meat, we have targeted international markets for the sale of dark chicken meat, specifically leg quarters, which are a natural by-product of our US operations’ concentration on prepared chicken products. As part of this initiative, we have created a significant international distribution network into several markets in Mexico, Eastern Europe (including Russia), and the Far East (including China). Our success in these markets may be, and our success in recent periods has been, adversely affected by disruptions in chicken export markets. For example, China has imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on the US chicken producers. Until these duties are modified or eliminated, the duty rates can be expected to deter Chinese importers from purchases of US-origin chicken products, including our chicken products, and can be expected to diminish the volume of such purchases. In addition, Russia effectively banned US poultry imports shipped after January 1, 2010 because of a chlorine treatment procedure required by US Department of Agriculture regulations. While Russia did allow US poultry imports to resume and we began exporting products to Russia again in September 2010, there can be no assurances that new disruptions will not arise. For example, Russia has indicated that it will develop its own internal poultry production and has set an import quota of 350,000 metric tons of poultry for 2011. A significant risk is disruption due to import restrictions and tariffs, other trade protection measures, and import or export licensing requirements. In addition, disruptions may be caused by outbreaks of disease such as avian influenza, either in our flocks or elsewhere in the world, and resulting changes in consumer preferences. For example, the occurrence of avian influenza in Eastern Europe in October 2005 affected demand for poultry in Europe. On February 7, 2011, Mexico, the top foreign buyer of US chicken in calendar year 2010, announced that it would investigate US producers over dumping complaints lodged by Mexican chicken processors. Mexican chicken processors allege US producers sold chicken legs and thighs on the Mexican market below their cost of production in 2010. One or more of these or other disruptions in the international markets and distribution channels could adversely affect our business. 35 Table of Contents Regulation, present and future, is a constant factor affecting our business. Our operations will continue to be subject to federal, state and local governmental regulation, including in the health, safety and environmental areas. We anticipate increased regulation by various agencies concerning food safety, the use of medication in feed formulations and the disposal of chicken by-products and wastewater discharges. Also, changes in laws or regulations or the application thereof may lead to government enforcement actions and the resulting litigation by private litigants. We are aware of an industry-wide investigation by the Wage and Hour Division of the US Department of Labor to ascertain compliance with various wage and hour issues, including the compensation of employees for the time spent on such activities such as donning and doffing work equipment. We have been named a defendant in a number of related suits brought by employees. Due, in part, to the government investigation and the recent US Supreme Court decision in IBP, Inc. v. Alvarez, it is possible that we may be subject to additional employee claims. Further, in June 2010, the USDA, Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration, or GIPSA, proposed new regulations under the Packers and Stockyards Act, or PSA, that would apply to all stages of a live poultry dealer’s poultry grow-out, including the pullet, breeder and broiler stages. The new regulations, if adopted as proposed, would likely have a significant impact on the relationship between integrated poultry processors, like us, and their independent growers. Among other things, the proposed regulations would substantially limit our and our independent contract growers’ freedom of contract, and affect the way we pay our independent contract growers. Many of the proposed new regulations are, in our view, unclear, vague and would likely require litigation to determine their scope and impact. Such litigation could be costly to our industry and us. GIPSA has also proposed a regulation designed to overturn judicial precedent from several federal Circuit Courts of Appeal and eliminate the requirement that GIPSA or live poultry producers demonstrate competitive harm to prove violations of PSA sections that limit unfair, unjustly discriminatory or deceptive practices and undue or unreasonable preferences or advantages in live poultry purchasing practices. If adopted as proposed, the new regulations could lead to government enforcement actions and private litigation against integrated poultry producers that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial and operating results. In addition, unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may also materially affect our business or operations in the future. New immigration legislation or increased enforcement efforts in connection with existing immigration legislation could cause the costs of doing business to increase, cause us to change the way we conduct our business or otherwise disrupt our operations. Immigration reform continues to attract significant attention in the public arena and the US Congress. If new federal immigration legislation is enacted or if states in which we do 36 Table of Contents business enact immigration laws, such laws may contain provisions that could make it more difficult or costly for us to hire US citizens and/or legal immigrant workers. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business or may have to change the way we conduct our operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Also, despite our past and continuing efforts to hire only US citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the US, we may be unable to ensure that all of their employees are US citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the US. For example, US Immigration and Customs Enforcement has investigated identity theft within our workforce. With our cooperation, during 2008 US Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested approximately 300 employees believed to have engaged in identity theft at five of our facilities. No assurances can be given that further enforcement efforts by governmental authorities will not disrupt a portion of our workforce or operations at one or more facilities, thereby negatively impacting our business. Also, no assurance can be given that further enforcement efforts by governmental authorities will not result in the assessment of fines that could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Loss of essential employees could have a significant negative impact on our business. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our management and other employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with essential skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to retain or attract talented, committed individuals to fill vacant positions when needs arise, it may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Our performance depends on favorable labor relations with our employees and our compliance with labor laws. Any deterioration of those relations or increase in labor costs due to our compliance with labor laws could adversely affect our business. As of December 26, 2010, we employed approximately 37,100 persons in the US and approximately 5,200 persons in Mexico. Approximately 29% of US employees and 57% of Mexico employees are members of collective bargaining units. We have not experienced any work stoppage at any location in over six years. We believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory. At any given time, we will be in some stage of contract negotiation with various collective bargaining units. The Company is currently in negotiation with union locals in four locations, and there is no assurance that agreement will be reached, or if reached, on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the absence of an agreement, we may become subject to a strike, a work stoppage or other labor action at any of these locations. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, at any given time, we will be in some stage of contract negotiation with various collective bargaining units. We plan to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 5,200 employees in the US to replace existing collective bargaining agreements that expired in 2010 or will expire in 2011. 37 Table of Contents Extreme weather or natural disasters could negatively impact our business. Extreme weather or natural disasters, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of our flocks, production or availability of feed ingredients, or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We may face significant costs for compliance with existing or changing environmental requirements and for potential environmental obligations relating to current or discontinued operations. Compliance with existing or changing environmental requirements, including more stringent limitations imposed or expected in recently-renewed or soon-to be renewed environmental permits, will require capital expenditures for installation of new or upgraded pollution control equipment at some of our facilities. In addition, a number of our facilities, that have been operating below capacity due to economic conditions or where upgrades have been delayed or deferred, will require capital expenditures before production can be restored to pre-bankruptcy levels in compliance with environmental requirements. In the past, we have acquired businesses with operations such as pesticide and fertilizer production that involved greater use of hazardous materials and generation of more hazardous wastes than our current operations. While many of those operations have been sold or closed, some environmental laws impose strict and, in certain circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of investigation and remediation of contaminated sites on current and former owners and operators of the sites, and on persons who arranged for disposal of wastes at such sites. In addition, current owners or operators of such contaminated sites may seek to recover cleanup costs from us based on past operations or contractual indemnifications. New environmental requirements, stricter interpretations of existing environmental requirements, or obligations related to the investigation or clean-up of contaminated sites, may materially affect our business or operations in the future. JBS USA holds a majority of our common stock and has the ability to control the vote on most matters brought before the holders of our common stock. JBS USA holds a majority of the shares and voting power of our common stock and is entitled to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors. As a result, JBS USA will, subject to restrictions on its voting power and actions in a stockholders agreement between us and JBS USA and our organization documents, have the ability to control our management, policies and financing decisions, elect a majority of the members of our board of directors at the annual meeting and control the vote on most matters coming before the holders of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents We may not be able to fully achieve the anticipated synergy gains from the integration of our business with JBS USA. While we have been able to realize substantial benefits through synergies since the JBS USA acquisition, we may not be able to fully achieve all of the anticipated synergistic gains of the JBS USA acquisition within the time frames expected. The combined company’s ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition depends, to a large extent, on our ability to continue to integrate our business with JBS USA. The combination of two independent companies has been, and will continue to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, the combined company has been, and will continue to be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of JBS USA and us. In addition, the on-going integration of the two companies could result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and supplier relationships, and diversion of management’s attention. As a result, we cannot make any affirmative guarantees that the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect, will be fully realized within the anticipated time frame. Our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. We are involved in an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. We depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. We contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. If we do not attract and maintain contracts with growers or maintain marketing and purchasing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. A material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. We periodically evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives, and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services. These potential transactions may involve a number of risks, including: • Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction; • Difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; 39 Table of Contents • Diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired; • Exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and • The need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction. We may not be able to address these risks and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units. If we are unable to do this, such expansion could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. The consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business. Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the US and in other major markets. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. These customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. Because of these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 