Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward Looking Statements Statements of our intentions, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future, denoted by the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "project," "imply," "intend," "foresee" and similar expressions, are forward-looking statements that reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Such risks, uncertainties and assumptions include those described under "Risk Factors" below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements as a result of these factors, among others, many of which are beyond our control. In making these statements, we are not undertaking, and specifically decline to undertake, any obligation to address or update each or any factor in future filings or communications regarding our business or results, and we are not undertaking to address how any of these factors may have caused changes in information contained in previous filings or communications. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively these important cautionary risk factors, we wish to caution investors and others that other factors may in the future prove to be important in affecting our business or results of operations. 24 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operations, industry, financial position and financial performance in the future. Cyclicality and Commodity Prices. Industry cyclicality can affect our earnings, especially due to fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients, chicken and turkey. Profitability in the chicken and turkey industries is materially affected by the commodity prices of feed ingredients, chicken and turkey, which are determined by supply and demand factors. As a result, the chicken and turkey industries are subject to cyclical earnings fluctuations. The production of feed ingredients is positively or negatively affected primarily by weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients and the agricultural policies of the United States and foreign governments. In particular, weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A sudden and significant change in weather patterns could affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry's and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens and turkeys or deliver products. The cost of corn, our primary feed ingredient, increased significantly from August 2006 to the date of this report, and there can be no assurance that the price of corn will not continue to rise as a result of, among other things, increasing demand for corn products around the world and alternative uses of corn, such as ethanol production. High feed ingredient prices have had a material adverse effect on our operating results in the past. We periodically seek, in some instances, to enter into advance purchase commitments or financial hedging contracts for the purchase of feed ingredients in an effort to manage our feed ingredient costs. However, we may not hedge feed ingredient cost risk unless requested by a specific customer or it is otherwise deemed prudent and any use of such instruments may not be successful. Livestock and Poultry Disease, including Avian Influenza. Outbreaks of livestock diseases in general and poultry diseases in particular, including avian influenza, can significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. We take reasonable precautions to ensure that our flocks are healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary and environmentally-sound manner. However, events beyond our control, such as the outbreaks of disease, either in our own flocks or elsewhere, could significantly affect demand for our products or our ability to conduct our operations. Furthermore, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken, turkey or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could also result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our business, reputation and prospects. 25 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 During the first half of fiscal 2006, there was substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H5N1, which has been affecting Asia since 2002 and which has recently been found in Eastern Europe. It is widely believed that H5N1 is being spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. There have also been some cases where H5N1 is believed to have passed from birds to humans as humans came into contact with live birds that were infected with the disease. Although highly pathogenic H5N1 has not been identified in North America, there have been outbreaks of low pathogenic strains of avian influenza in North America, including in the U.S. in 2002 and 2004, and in Mexico outbreaks of both high and low-pathogenic strains of avian influenza is a fairly common occurrence, including this year, which have impacted our operations. Historically, the outbreaks of low pathogenic avian influenza have not generated the same level of concern, or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products in certain countries as that recently associated with the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain. Accordingly, even if the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain does not spread to North or Central America, there can be no assurance that it will not materially adversely affect demand for North or Central American produced poultry internationally and/or domestically, and, if it were to spread to North or Central America, there can be no assurance that it would not significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and/or demand for our products, in each case in a manner having a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and/or prospects. Contamination of Products. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. Poultry products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E.coli. These pathogens are generally found in the environment, and, as a result, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our processed poultry products. These pathogens can also be introduced as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. These risks may be controlled, although not eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We have little, if any, control over proper handling once the product has been shipped. Illness and death may result if the pathogens are not eliminated at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and prospects. In October 2002, one product sample produced in our Franconia, Pennsylvania facility that had not been shipped to customers tested positive for Listeria. We later received information from the USDA suggesting environmental samples taken at the facility had tested positive for both the strain of Listeria identified in the product and a strain having characteristics similar to those of the strain identified in a Northeastern Listeria outbreak. As a result, we voluntarily recalled all cooked deli products produced at the plant from May 1, 2002 through October 11, 2002. We carried insurance designed to cover the direct recall related expenses and certain aspects of the related business interruption caused by the recall. 26 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 Product Liability. Product liability claims or product recalls can adversely affect our business reputation and expose us to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulators. The packaging, marketing and distribution of food products entail an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We could be required to recall certain of our products in the event of contamination or damage to the products. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our production or processing operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our products. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to perform product recalls, or that product liability claims will not be asserted against us, in the future. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. As described above under “Contamination of Products,” if our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. In October 2002, we voluntarily recalled all cooked deli products produced at one of our facilities from May 1, 2002 through October 11, 2002. In connection with this recall, we were named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits brought by individuals alleging injuries resulting from contracting Listeria monocytogenes. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” There can be no assurance that any litigation or reputational injury associated with this or any future product recalls will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully or on our business, reputation, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance. We are exposed to risks relating to product liability, product recall, property damage and injuries to persons for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate. Our business operations entail a number of risks, including risks relating to product liability claims, product recalls, property damage and injuries to persons. We currently maintain insurance with respect to certain of these risks, including product liability insurance, property insurance, workers compensation insurance and general liability insurance, but in many cases such insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and no assurance can be given that such insurance can be maintained in the future on acceptable terms, or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to any such events, or at all. Moreover, even though our insurance coverage may be designed to protect us from losses attributable to certain events, it may not adequately protect us from liability and expenses we incur in connection with such events. For example, the losses attributable to our October 2002 recall of cooked deli-products produced at one of our facilities significantly exceeded available insurance coverage. Additionally, in the past two of our insurers encountered financial difficulties and were unable to fulfill their obligations under the insurance policies as anticipated and separately two of our other insurers contested coverage with respect to claims covered under policies purchased, forcing us to litigate the issue of coverage before we were able to collect under these policies. 27 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 Government Regulation. Regulation, present and future, is a constant factor affecting our business. The chicken and turkey industries are subject to federal, state and local governmental regulation, including in the health, safety and environmental areas. We anticipate increased regulation by various agencies concerning food safety, the use of medication in feed formulations and the disposal of poultry by-products and wastewater discharges. Also, changes in laws or regulations or the application thereof may lead to government enforcement actions and the resulting litigation by private litigants. We are aware of an industry-wide investigation by the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor to ascertain compliance with various wage and hour issues, including the compensation of employees for the time spent on such activities such as donning and doffing work equipment. We have been named a defendant in several related suits brought by employees. Due, in part, to the government investigation and the recent U.S. Supreme Court decision in IBP, Inc. v. Alvarez, it is possible that we may be subject to additional employee claims. Unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may materially affect our business or operations in the future. Significant Competition. Competition in the chicken and turkey industries with other vertically integrated poultry companies, especially companies with greater resources, may make us unable to compete successfully in these industries, which could adversely affect our business. The chicken and turkey industries are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than us. In both the U.S. and Mexico, we primarily compete with other vertically integrated poultry companies. In general, the competitive factors in the U.S. poultry industry include: • Price; • Product quality; • Brand identification; • Breadth of product line; and • Customer service. Competitive factors vary by major market. In the foodservice market, competition is based on consistent quality, product development, service and price. In the U.S. retail market, we believe that competition is based on product quality, brand awareness, customer service and price. Further, there is some competition with non-vertically integrated further processors in the prepared food business. In Mexico, where product differentiation has traditionally been limited, product quality and price have been the most critical competitive factors. Additionally, the North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect on January 1, 1994, required annual reductions in tariffs for chicken and chicken products in order to eliminate those tariffs by January 1, 2003. On November 21, 2002, the Mexican Secretariat of the Economy announced that it would initiate an investigation to determine whether a temporary safeguard action was warranted to protect the domestic poultry industry when import tariffs on poultry were eliminated in January 2003. In July 2003, the U.S. and Mexico entered into a safeguard agreement with regard to imports into Mexico of chicken leg quarters from the U.S. Under this agreement, a tariff rate for chicken leg quarters of 98.8% of the sales price was established. This tariff was reduced on January 1, 2006 to 39.5% and is to be reduced in each of the following two years in equal increments so that the final tariff rate at January 1, 2008 will be zero. As those tariffs are reduced, increased competition from chicken imported into Mexico from the U.S. may have a material adverse effect on the Mexican chicken industry in general, and on our Mexican operations in particular. 28 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 Loss of Key Customers. The loss of one or more of our largest customers could adversely affect our business. Our two largest customers accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, and our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., accounted for 12% of our net sales. Our business could suffer significant set backs in revenues and operating income if we lost one or more of our largest customers, or if our customers' plans and/or markets should change significantly. Potential Acquisitions. We intend to pursue opportunities to acquire complementary businesses, which could increase leverage and debt service requirements and could adversely affect our financial situation if we fail to successfully integrate the acquired business. We intend to pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses in the future. Inherent in any future acquisitions are certain risks such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following such acquisitions. Additional debt or equity capital may be required to complete future acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise the required capital. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • Diversion of management's attention; • The need to integrate acquired operations; • Potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; • Lack of experience in operating in the geographical market of the acquired business; and • An increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these and other factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated cash flows at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Assumption of Unknown Liabilities in Acquisitions. Assumption of unknown liabilities in acquisitions may harm our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions may be structured in such a manner that would result in the assumption of unknown liabilities not disclosed by the seller or uncovered during pre-acquisition due diligence. For example, our acquisition of the ConAgra chicken division was structured as a stock purchase. In that acquisition we assumed all of the liabilities of the ConAgra chicken division, including liabilities that may be unknown. Similarly, the acquisition of Gold Kist would likely expose us to unknown liabilities. These obligations and liabilities could harm our financial condition and operating results. 29 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 Leverage. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt securities. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition which could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; · Limit our ability to obtain necessary financing and to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; · Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; · Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · Limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and sell assets; and · Limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds. Failing to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default or require redemption of indebtedness. Either of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is dependent on various factors. These factors include the commodity prices of feed ingredients, chicken and turkey and general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Despite our indebtedness, we are not prohibited from incurring significant additional indebtedness in the future. If additional debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The completion of our proposed acquisition of Gold Kist would increase our indebtedness substantially. Proposed Acquisition of Gold Kist. A number of risks are associated with our proposed acquisition of Gold Kist, and the consummation of an acquisition would increase certain risks we now face. 30 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 The Gold Kist Board has rejected our offer to purchase Gold Kist and commenced litigation that is intended to prevent the acquisition. Gold Kist has not made available to us materials for due diligence. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the proposed acquisition of Gold Kist or obtain detailed due diligence materials. Further, if we acquire Gold Kist, there are no assurances that we can effectively integrate Gold Kist's business or realize the associated cost savings and operating synergies currently anticipated. Additionally, the acquisition of Gold Kist would increase our indebtedness substantially. Foreign Operations Risks. Our foreign operations pose special risks to our business and operations. We have significant operations and assets located in Mexico and may participate in or acquire operations and assets in other foreign countries in the future. Foreign operations are subject to a number of special risks, including among others: • Currency exchange rate fluctuations; • Trade barriers; • Exchange controls; • Expropriation; and • Changes in laws and policies, including those governing foreign-owned operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations have adversely affected us in the past. Exchange rate fluctuations or one or more other risks may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations in the future. Our operations in Mexico are conducted through subsidiaries organized under the laws of Mexico. We may rely in part on intercompany loans and distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries, including trade creditors, will generally have priority as to the assets of our subsidiaries over our claims. Additionally, the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make payments and distributions to us will be subject to, among other things, Mexican law. In the past, these laws have not had a material adverse effect on the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make these payments and distributions. However, laws such as these may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our Mexican subsidiaries to make these payments and distributions in the future. Control of Voting Stock. Control over Pilgrim's Pride is maintained by members of the family of Lonnie "Bo" Pilgrim. As described in more detail in Item 12. "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters," through two limited partnerships and related trusts and voting agreements, Lonnie "Bo" Pilgrim, Patty R. Pilgrim, his wife, and Lonnie Ken Pilgrim, his son, control 62.225% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they control the outcome of all actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of Pilgrim's Pride or its assets. This ensures their ability to control the foreseeable future direction and management of Pilgrim's Pride. In addition, an event of default under certain agreements related to our indebtedness will occur if Lonnie "Bo" Pilgrim and certain members of his family cease to own at least a majority of the voting power of the outstanding common stock. 31 Pilgrim's Pride Corporation September 30, 2006 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 