ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in the Corporation’s common shares involves risk. The market price of the Corporation’s common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including those that follow. The following list contains certain risks that may be unique to the Corporation and to the banking industry. The following list of risks should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. FDIC assessments may negatively impact earnings The FDIC has authority to increase regular deposit insurance assessments or impose additional special or emergency assessments if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The Corporation cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings In response to the impact of economic conditions since 2008 on banks generally and on the FDIC deposit insurance fund, the FDIC changed its risk-based assessment system and increased base assessment rates. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish the depleted insurance fund. In February 2011, as required 12 Table of Contents under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC issued a ruling pursuant to which the assessment base against which FDIC assessments for deposit insurance are made will change. Instead of FDIC insurance assessments being based upon an insured bank’s deposits, FDIC insurance assessments will generally be based on an insured bank’s total average assets minus average tangible equity. With this change, the Corporation expects that its overall FDIC insurance cost will decline. However, a change in the risk categories applicable to the Corporation’s bank subsidiaries, further adjustments to base assessment rates and any special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that the FDIC take steps necessary to increase the level of the Deposit Insurance Fund to 1.35% of total insured deposits by September 30, 2020. In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a Restoration Plan to achieve that goal. Certain elements of the Restoration Plan are left to future FDIC rulemaking, as are the potential for increases to the assessment rates, which may become necessary to achieve the targeted level of the DIF. Future FDIC rulemaking in this regard may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh continues not to pay dividends and limits stock repurchases On December 23, 2008, the FHLB announced that it would voluntarily suspend the payment of dividends and the repurchase of excess capital stock until further notice. The FHLB expected its ability to pay dividends and add to retained earnings to be significantly curtailed due to low short-term interest rates, an increased cost of maintaining liquidity, other-than-temporary impairment charges, and constrained access to debt markets at attractive rates. Capital stock repurchases from member banks are reviewed on a quarterly basis by the FHLB, and only limited repurchases are expected to occur until further notice. As of December 31, 2010, the Corporation held $14.2 million of FHLB capital stock. The steadiness of other financial institutions could have detrimental effects Routine funding transactions may be adversely affected by the actions and soundness of other financial institutions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, lending, borrowing or other relationships. Transactions are executed on a daily basis with different industries and counterparties, and routinely executed with counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, a rumor, default or failures within the financial services industry could lead to market-wide liquidity problems which in turn could materially impact the financial condition of the Corporation. Financial turmoil may increase other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges Over the last several years, there has been a rise in OTTI charges taken by institutions, as the fair market values of many investment securities have fallen below their amortized cost basis. The increasing duration of unrealized losses on these securities brought about heightened scrutiny by banks, auditors, and outside examiners on whether write-downs were necessary. If the Corporation’s OTTI charges result in it falling below the “well capitalized” regulatory requirement, the Corporation may need to raise additional capital. The Corporation may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations and may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. In the absence of wholesale funding sources, the Corporation may turn to additional subordinated debt and/or other transactions that might be available. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If the Corporation is unable to generate sufficient additional capital though its earnings, or other sources, it would be necessary to slow earning asset growth and or pass up possible acquisition opportunities, which may result in a reduction of future net income growth. Further, an inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sufficient funding to support earning asset growth The Corporation recognizes the need to grow both wholesale and non-wholesale funding sources to support earning asset growth and to provide appropriate liquidity. The Corporation’s asset growth over the past few years has been funded with various forms of wholesale funding which is defined as wholesale deposits (primarily certificates of deposit) and borrowed funds (FHLB advances, Federal advances and Federal fund line borrowings). Wholesale funding at December 31, 2010 represents approximately 18.3% of total funding compared with approximately 21.5% at December 31, 2009 and 30.9% at December 31, 2008. Wholesale funding generally costs more than deposits generated from the Corporation’s traditional branch system and is subject to certain practical limits such as the FHLB’s Maximum Borrowing Capacity and the Corporation’s liquidity targets. Additionally, regulators might consider wholesale funding beyond certain points to be imprudent and might suggest that future asset growth be reduced or halted. In the absence of wholesale funding sources, the Corporation might need to reduce earning asset growth through the reduction of current production, sale of assets, and/or the participating out of future and current loans or leases. This in turn might reduce future net income of the Corporation. 13 Table of Contents The amount loaned to us is generally dependant on the value of the collateral pledged and the Corporation’s financial condition. These lenders could reduce the percentages loaned against various collateral categories, eliminate certain types of collateral and otherwise modify or even terminate their loan programs, particularly to the extent they are required to do so because of capital adequacy or other balance sheet concerns, or if further disruptions in the capital markets occur. Any change or termination of our borrowings from the FHLB, the Federal Reserve or correspondent banks would have an adverse affect on our liquidity and profitability. On February 27, 2009 the FDIC finalized its risk based assessment rules for ongoing assessments. These new rules include certain upward adjustments in the base assessment rate for rapid growth and use of wholesale funding. These new ongoing assessment rules effectively increase the cost of wholesale funding above certain levels in the form of increased FDIC assessments. The capital and credit markets remain volatile The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for the past few years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or our ability to access capital. Several factors could cause the market price for our common shares to fluctuate substantially in the future, including without limitation: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. Market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry Declines in the housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, coupled with a rising unemployment rate, have resulted in write-downs of asset values by financial institutions throughout the country. These write-downs include asset-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative securities. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of many financial institutions, lenders have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit could lead to continual elevated levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, the abundance of merger and acquisition activity, failures of financial institutions and a reduction of general business activity and related revenues. Political gridlock at state and federal levels The inability of our federal and state governments to control spending and borrowing, and the resulting record deficits, does not bode well for the future economic growth of our Country and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Unless the problem of the escalating costs of governmental entitlement programs, unfunded spending and growing deficits, are brought under control, we may experience large tax increases, higher interest rates, reduced government services and much slower growth in the coming years, resulting in lower net income to the Corporation. Previously enacted and potential future legislation, including legislation to reform the U.S. financial regulatory system, could adversely affect our business Market conditions have resulted in creation of various programs by the United States Congress, the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC that were designed to enhance market liquidity and bank capital. As these programs expire, are withdrawn or reduced, the impact on the financial markets, banks in general and their customers is unknown. This could have the effect of, among other things, reducing liquidity, raising interest rates, reducing fee revenue, limiting the ability to raise capital, all of which could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of the Bank and the Corporation. Additionally, the federal government is considering a variety of other reforms related to banking and the financial industry including, without limitation, the newly adopted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, that was enacted by Congress on July 15, 2010, and was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. This legislation could require us to make material expenditures, in particular personnel training costs and additional compliance expenses, or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results. It could also require us to change certain of our business practices, adversely affect our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, cause business disruptions and/or have other impacts that are as-of-yet unknown to the Corporation and the Bank. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, even if 14 Table of Contents inadvertent, could result in negative publicity, fines or additional licensing expenses, any of which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act is intended to preclude bank holding companies from treating future trust preferred securities issuances as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital adequacy purposes. This provision may narrow the number of possible capital raising opportunities the Corporation, and other bank holding companies, might have in the future. The new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“BCFP”) may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank. The BCFP has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the “Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof,” with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The BCFP is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (“UDAP authority”). The potential reach of the BCFP’s broad new rulemaking powers and UDAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank is currently unknown. Potential losses incurred in connection with possible repurchases and indemnification payments related to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market may require us to increase our financial statement reserves in the future. We engage in the origination and sale of residential mortgages into the secondary market. In connection with such sales, we make certain representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. These representations and warranties vary based on the nature of the transaction and the purchaser’s or insurer’s requirements but generally pertain to the ownership of the mortgage loan, the real property securing the loan and compliance with applicable laws and applicable lender and government-sponsored entity underwriting guidelines in connection with the origination of the loan. While we believe our mortgage lending practices and standards to be adequate, we may receive requests in the future, which could be material in volume. If that were to happen, we could incur losses in connection with loan repurchases and indemnification claims, and any such losses might exceed our financial statement reserves, requiring us to increase such reserves. In that event, any losses we might have to recognize and any increases we might have to make to our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accounting standards periodically change and the application of our accounting policies and methods may require the Corporation to make estimates about matters that are uncertain The regulatory bodies that establish accounting standards, including, among others, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, periodically revise or issue new financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The effect of such revised or new standards on our financial statements can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Corporation must exercise judgment in appropriately applying many of our accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles. In some cases, the Corporation may have to select a particular accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives. In some cases, the accounting policy or method chosen might be reasonable under the circumstances and yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported if we had selected a different policy or method. Accounting policies are critical to fairly presenting our financial condition and results of operations and may require the Corporation to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Rapidly changing interest rate environment could reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Corporation’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of the Corporation’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of the Corporation. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapidly changing interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of divergence in financial instrument maturities and/or competitive pressures. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. Also, changes in interest rates might also impact the values of equity and debt securities under management and administration by the Wealth Management Division which may have a negative impact on fee income. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in the MD&A of the 2010 Annual Report for additional details regarding interest rate risk. Provision for loan and lease losses and level of non-performing loans 15 Table of Contents All borrowers carry the potential to default and our remedies to recover may not fully satisfy money previously loaned. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which represents the Corporation’s best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of the Corporation, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects the Corporation’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic conditions; and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Corporation. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The design of the allowance for loan loss methodology is a dynamic process that must be responsive to changes in environmental factors. Accordingly, at times the allowance methodology may be modified in order to incorporate changes in various factors including, but not limited to, levels and trends of delinquencies and charge-offs, trends in volume and types of loans, national and economic trends and industry conditions. The Corporation’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented The Corporation diligently reviews and updates the its internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any failure or undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Decreased residential mortgage origination, volume and pricing decisions of competitors The Corporation originates, sells and services residential mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates and pricing decisions by our loan competitors affect demand for the Corporation’s residential mortgage loan products, the revenue realized on the sale of loans and revenues received from servicing such loans for others, ultimately reducing the Corporation’s net income. New regulations, increased regulatory reviews, and/or changes in the structure of the secondary mortgage markets which the Corporation utilizes to sell mortgage loans may be introduced and may increase costs and make it more difficult to operate a residential mortgage origination business. The Corporation’s performance and financial condition may be adversely affected by regional economic conditions and real estate values The Bank’s loan and deposit activities are largely based in eastern Pennsylvania. As a result, the Corporation’s consolidated financial performance depends largely upon economic conditions in this eastern Pennsylvania region. This region experienced deteriorating local economic conditions during 2008 and 2009, and a continued downturn in the regional real estate market could harm our financial condition and results of operations because of the geographic concentration of loans within this regional area and because a large percentage of our loans are secured by real property. If there is further decline in real estate values, the collateral for the Corporation’s loans will provide less security. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and the Bank will be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a significant portion of the Corporation’s loan portfolio is invested in commercial real estate loans. Often in a commercial real estate transaction, repayment of the loan is dependent on rental income. Economic conditions may affect the tenant’s ability to make rental payments on a timely basis, and may cause some tenants not to renew their leases, each of which may impact the debtor’s ability to make loan payments. Further, if expenses associated with commercial properties increase dramatically, the tenant’s ability to repay, and therefore the debtor’s ability to make timely loan payments, could be adversely affected. All of these factors could increase the amount of the Corporation’s non-performing loans, increase its provision for loan and lease losses and reduce the Corporation’s net income. Leasing business transactions may result in additional risks not previously experienced by the Corporation The Corporation’s leasing business which began operations in September 2006, consists of nation-wide leasing various types of equipment to businesses with an average original equipment cost of $18 thousand per lease. Continued economic sluggishness may result in higher credit losses than we would experience in our traditional lending business, as well as potential increases in state regulatory burdens such as state income taxes, personal property taxes and sales and use taxes. A continued general economic slowdown could further impact Wealth Management Division revenues 16 Table of Contents A continued general economic slowdown could decrease the value of Wealth Management Division assets under management and administration resulting in lower fee income, and clients potentially seeking alternative investment opportunities with other providers, which resulting in lower fee income to the Corporation. Our ability to realize our deferred tax asset may be reduced, which may adversely impact results of operations Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to exercise significant judgment and is inherently uncertain because it requires the prediction of future occurrences. The deferred tax asset may be reduced in the future if estimates of future income or our tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax asset. If it is determined that a valuation allowance of its deferred tax asset is necessary, the Corporation may incur a charge to earnings. The Corporation is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may become responsible to a governmental agency or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with environmental investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation is subject to certain risks in connection with its use of technology Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits, and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions, and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online banking service, which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The Corporation is subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Potential acquisitions, including the pending acquisition of the Private Wealth Management Group of the Hershey Trust Company, may disrupt the Corporation’s business and dilute shareholder value We regularly evaluate opportunities to strengthen our current market position by acquiring and investing in banks and in other complementary businesses, or opening new branches. As a result, we may engage in negotiations or discussions that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short and long-term liquidity. Our acquisition activities could be material to us. For example, we could issue additional shares of common stock in a purchase transaction, which could dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest. These activities could require us to use a substantial amount of cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our prior or potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized. Any potential charges for impairment related to goodwill would not impact cash flow, tangible capital or liquidity. Our acquisition activities, including the pending acquisition of the private wealth management business (the “PWMG Business”) of the Hershey Trust Company, could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of: • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in the Corporation’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire; • the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; • experiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations; • creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; • losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received; and • risk of significant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the entity being acquired into the Corporation’s financial and customer product systems. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with pending or potential acquisitions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, ROE and ROA, and our ability to achieve our business strategy and maintain our market value. 18 Table of Contents Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future We may not be able to sustain a positive rate of growth or be able to expand our business. We expect that other banking and financial service companies, many of which have significantly greater resources than us, will compete with us in acquiring other financial institutions if we pursue such acquisitions. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals for a transaction, including the PWMG Business, we will not be able to consummate such transaction which we believe to be in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Other factors, such as economic conditions and legislative considerations, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we are not able to successfully grow our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The financial services industry is very competitive The Corporation faces competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services such as trust and investment management services throughout the Corporation’s market area. The Corporation’s competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, trust companies and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, registered investment advisors, financial planning firms, leasing companies, government-sponsored enterprises, on-line banking enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Corporation. This is especially evident in regards to advertising and public relations spending. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “Business—Competition” in Item 1 above. If the Corporation is unable to compete effectively, the Corporation may lose market share and income from deposits, loans, and other products may be reduced. Additionally, increased competition among financial services companies due to consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. The Corporation’s common stock is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness; regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock; and we are not limited on the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future Our common stock ranks junior to all indebtedness, including our outstanding subordinated debentures, and other non-equity claims on the Corporation with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on the Corporation, including in a liquidation of the Corporation. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of our common stock, dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by our Board of Directors and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Under Pennsylvania law we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends out of lawfully available funds. Also, the Corporation’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In addition, we are not limited by our common stock in the amount of debt or other obligations we or our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to our common stock or to which our common stock will be structurally subordinated. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or other securities. Additionally, our shareholders may in the future approve the authorization of additional classes or series of stock which may have distribution or other rights senior to the rights of our common stock, or may be convertible into or exchangeable for, or may represent the right to receive, common stock or substantially similar securities. The future issuance of shares of our common stock or any other such future equity classes or series could have a dilutive effect on the holders of our common stock. Additionally, the market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or any future class or series of stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. 19 Table of Contents Additional risk factors also include the following all of which may reduce revenues and/or increase expenses and/or pull the Corporation’s attention away from core banking operations which may ultimately reduce the Corporation’s net income: • Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management and staff; • Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance; • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes; • Rumors or erroneous information; • Changes in market values of similar companies; • New developments in the banking industry; • Variations in quarterly or annual operating results; • New litigation or changes in existing litigation; • Regulatory actions; • Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 