ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in the Corporation’s common shares involves risk. The market price of the Corporation’s common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including those that follow. The following list contains certain risks that may be unique to the Corporation and to the banking industry. The following list of risks should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. • Future loan and lease losses may exceed the Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses The Corporation is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in the Corporation’s market area or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. This deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to the Corporation in excess of loan and lease loss allowances. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans and leases are placed on non-accrual, thereby reducing interest income. To the extent loan and lease charge-offs exceed the Corporation’s projections, increased amounts allocated to the provision for loan losses would reduce income. • Rapidly changing interest rate environment could reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Corporation’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of the Corporation’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of Management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapidly changing interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in financial instrument maturities and/or competitive pressures. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth particularly in real estate related loans, which have been a significant portion of the Corporation’s revenue growth over the past two years. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. Also, changes in interest rates might also impact the values of equity and debt securities under management and administration by the Wealth Management Division which may have a negative impact on fee income. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in the MD&A of the Corporation’s Annual Report to Shareholders for additional details regarding interest rate risk. • A General Economic Slowdown Could Impact Wealth Management Division Revenues A general economic slowdown might decrease the value of Wealth Management Division assets under management and administration resulting in lower fee income. Such an economic downturn might also result in Wealth Management Division clients seeking alternative investment opportunities with other providers, resulting in lower fee income to the Corporation. • Slower than anticipated growth in new branches and from lower than expected new business could result in reduced net income The Corporation has opened three new branches since 2003. Risks associated with this include slower than anticipated growth in new branch locations and lower than expected loan, deposit and other income from these new branches. New branches require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan, deposit and other revenue growth in new branches could result in additional expenses, lower revenue and might divert resources from current core operations, ultimately reducing net income. • The financial services industry is very competitive The Corporation faces competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services such as trust and investment management services throughout the Corporation’s market area. The Corporation’s competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, trust companies and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, on-line banking enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Corporation. This is especially evident in regards to advertising and public relations spending. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “Business—Competition” in Item 1 above. If the Corporation is unable to compete effectively, the Corporation will lose market share and income from deposits, loans, and other products may be reduced. 8 Table of Contents • Decreased residential mortgage origination, volume and pricing decisions of competitors The Corporation originates, sells and services residential mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates and pricing decisions by our loan competitors affect demand for the Corporation’s residential mortgage loan products, the revenue realized on the sale of loans and revenues received from servicing such loans for others, ultimately reducing the Corporation’s net income. A new regulation may be introduced to the residential mortgage origination market due to issues resulting from the 2007 “sub-prime” mortgage crisis. This new regulation may increase costs and make it more difficult to operate a residential mortgage origination business. • New leasing business may result in additional risks not previously experienced by the Corporation The Corporation’s new leasing business which began operations in September 2006 consists of leasing various types of equipment to businesses in amounts ranging from $10 thousand to $150 thousand throughout the United States. In addition to anticipated credit losses higher than our traditional lending business, the Corporation will be operating in a geographic area well beyond our Philadelphia market area. Additional risks may include additional state regulatory burdens including multi-state tax issues such as state income taxes, personal property taxes and sales and use taxes. • Lack of growth in other deposits and increased reliance on wholesale funding may impact earning asset growth Other deposits are defined as total deposits less wholesale deposits. Historically other deposits have experienced modest growth each year as evidenced by the compound annual growth rate of 13.9% over the ten year period ending December 31, 2005. Since that time, other deposit growth has been very slow due to a number of factors which include intense competition as discussed earlier in this report under the heading “Competition”, a more educated consumer, an abundance of information from the Internet, more electronic banking options, wider acceptance of debt and credit transactions, and reduced customer loyalty. If growth of other deposits remains slow, the Corporation intends to fund earning asset growth with higher cost wholesale sources. However, after it evaluates the capacity and cost of continuing to fund asset growth with wholesale sources, the Corporation may decide to reduce or eliminate future asset growth. Such a decision could impact profitability. • Additional risk factors also include the following all of which may reduce revenues and / or increase expenses and/or pull Management’s attention away from core banking operations which may ultimately reduce the Corporation’s net income • Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management and staff • Changes in securities analysts estimates of financial performance • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes • Rumors or erroneous information • Changes in market values of similar companies • New developments in the banking industry • Variations in quarterly or annual operating results • New litigation or changes in existing litigation • Regulatory actions • Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 