ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in the Corporation’s common shares involves risk. The market price of the Corporation’s common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors including those that follow. The following list contains certain risks that may be unique to the Corporation and to the banking industry. The following list of risks should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. • Sufficient Funding to Support Earning Asset Growth Over the past 24 months, the Corporation’s assets have grown from $827 million at December 31, 2006 to approximately $1.15 billion at December 31, 2008. This growth has been funded with various forms of wholesale funding which is defined as wholesale deposits (primarily certificates of deposit) and borrowed funds (FHLB advances and subordinated debt). Wholesale funding at December 31, 2008 represents approximately 30.9% of total funding compared with approximately 19.5% at December 31, 2007 and 4.8% at December 31, 2006. Wholesale funding generally costs more than deposits generated from the Corporation’s traditional branch system and is subject to certain practical limits such as the FHLB’s Maximum Borrowing Capacity and the Corporation’s liquidity targets. Additionally, regulators might consider wholesale funding beyond certain points to be imprudent and might suggest that future asset growth be reduced or halted. The Corporation recognizes the need to grow both wholesale and non-wholesale funding sources to support earning asset growth and to provide appropriate liquidity. In the absence of wholesale funding sources, the Corporation may fund earning asset growth with additional subordinated debt and/or other transactions that might be available, including the TLGP. If none of these funding sources are available, the Corporation might need to reduce earning asset growth through the reduction of current production, sale of assets, and/or the participating out of future and current loans or leases. This in turn might reduce future net income of the Corporation. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC finalized its risk based assessment rules for ongoing assessments. These new rules include certain upward adjustments in the base assessment rate for rapid growth and use of wholesale funding. These new ongoing assessment rules effectively increase the cost of wholesale funding above certain thresholds in the form of increased FDIC assessments. See Regulatory Matters and Pending Legislation in the 2008 Annual Report for additional information. • Other Recent Legislation and Regulatory Actions Recent market conditions have made it difficult or uneconomical to access the capital markets. As a result, the United States Congress, the Treasury, and the FDIC have announced various programs designed to enhance market liquidity and bank capital. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“ESSA”) was signed into law and established the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”) administered by the U.S. Treasury Department. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) to provide $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. In connection with EESA, there have been numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to further the economic and banking industry stabilization efforts under EESA. It remains unclear at this time what further legislative and regulatory measures will be implemented under EESA and the effect such measures may have on the Corporation. 9 Table of Contents As further response to the economic crisis, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), more commonly known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package, was signed into law on February 17, 2009 by President Obama. ARRA includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. In addition, ARRA imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients until they have repaid the Treasury, which is now permitted under ARRA without penalty and without the need to raise new capital, subject to the Treasury’s consultation with the recipient’s appropriate agency. The Corporation elected not to participate in TARP due to its “well capitalized” regulatory capital position and the ever changing conditions of the program. On February 10, 2009, a Capital Assistance Program was announced to ensure that banking institutions are capitalized with high-quality capital. The program was initiated on February 24, 2009 and evaluates the capital needs of major U.S. banking institutions in this challenging economic environment. The program will assess if an additional capital buffer is warranted, allow the institution to seek private sources of capital or turn to the government for a temporary source of capital, and is not expected to be a new capital standard or maintained on an ongoing basis. Eligibility is dependent on the results of a government stress test, which will be administered on a mandatory basis to banks with $100 billion plus in assets and if accepted, provides Tier 1 capital assistance. The application deadline for the program is May 25, 2009 and after receiving preliminary approval, six months will be provided to close the transaction during which time the company may seek to raise private capital. The capital will be senior to common stock, have an equal level of seniority to existing preferred shares, and will be required to pay cumulative dividends to the government at a rate of 9% per annum, compounded quarterly. The Corporation is currently evaluating the requirements of the program. • Difficult economic conditions and market volatility have adversely impacted the banking industry and financial markets and may significantly affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation The Corporation’s success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Dramatic declines in the housing market beginning in the latter half of 2007, together with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. The capital and credit markets, including the fixed income markets, have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than fifteen months. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ financial strength. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions because of concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties. It is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, or decreases in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans resulting in significant credit losses, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 10 Table of Contents • Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, which may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies, which may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. • Further increases in FDIC insurance premiums due to the market developments which have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FIDC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several factors could cause the market price for our common shares to fluctuate substantially in the future, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • fluctuations in our results of operations; • sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace; • general conditions in our markets or the worldwide economy; • a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts’ expectations; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; and • our announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. • Capital Restraints The Corporation and Bank, while considered “well capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes, have seen capital ratios gradually decline over the past 24 months due to earning asset growth and an acquisition facilitated with cash. The Corporation’s continuation of this growth at this rate is contingent upon the Corporation’s ability to generate sufficient additional capital through its earnings and or other sources. If the Corporation is unable to generate sufficient additional capital though its earnings or other sources, it would be necessary to slow earning asset growth and or pass up possible acquisition opportunities, which may result in a reduction of future net income growth. • Market Conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry Declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, coupled with a rising unemployment rate, have resulted in write-downs of asset values by financial institutions throughout the country. These write-downs include asset-backed securities, credit default swaps and other derivative securities. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of many financial institutions, lenders have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to elevated levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, the abundance of merger and acquisition activity or failures of financial institutions and a reduction of general business activity and related revenues. 11 Table of Contents • Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh suspends dividend and capital stock repurchase On December 23, 2008, the FHLBank of Pittsburgh (“FHLB-P”) announced that it will voluntarily suspend the payment of dividends and the repurchase of excess capital stock until further notice. The FHLB-P expects that its ability to pay dividends and add to retained earnings will be significantly curtailed due to low short-term interest rates, an increased cost of maintaining liquidity and constrained access to debt markets at attractive rates. Capital stock repurchases from member banks will be reviewed on a quarterly basis, but no repurchase will take place in the first quarter of 2009, or in subsequent quarters until advised. The FHLB-P is the primary source of liquidity for BMTC, but BMTC can also use other alternatives that include the Federal Reserve discount window and wholesale funding. BMTC as of December 31, 2008 held $7.9 million of FHLB-P capital stock and is monitoring the situation closely as are other FHLB-P banks. • Financial downfall increases other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) charges Due to the current economic crisis, there has been a rise in OTTI charges taken by institutions, as the fair market values of many investment securities have fallen below their amortized cost basis. The increasing duration of unrealized losses on these securities brought about heightened scrutiny by banks, auditors, and outside examiners on whether write-downs were necessary. A worst case scenario for BMTC would be if regulatory capital ratios fall below the “well capitalized” regulatory requirement due to impairment charges which might necessitate a need to raise capital. BMTC has evaluated its investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 and no OTTI charges are warranted. • The steadiness of other financial institutions could have detrimental effects Routine funding transactions may be adversely affected by the actions and soundness of other financial institutions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, lending, borrowing and other relationships. Transactions are executed on a daily basis with different industries and counterparties, and routinely executed with counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, rumors, defaults or failures within the financial services industry in general could lead to market-wide liquidity problems which in turn could impact the financial condition of the Corporation. • Future loan and lease losses may exceed the Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses The Corporation is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. A continued downturn in the economy or the real estate market in the Corporation’s market area or a rapid change in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. This deterioration in economic conditions could result in losses to the Corporation in excess of loan and lease loss allowances. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans and leases are placed on non-accrual, thereby reducing interest income. To the extent loan and lease charge-offs exceed the Corporation’s projections, increased amounts allocated to the provision for loan losses would reduce income. • Leasing business transactions may result in additional risks not previously experienced by the Corporation The Corporation’s leasing business which began operations in September 2006 consists of leasing various types of equipment to businesses in amounts ranging from $10 thousand to $150 thousand throughout the United States. In addition to anticipated credit losses higher than our traditional lending business, the Corporation’s leasing business is facing a nationwide economic slowdown. Additional risks may include additional state regulatory burdens including multi-state tax issues such as state income taxes, personal property taxes and sales and use taxes. • Rapidly changing interest rate environment could reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of the Corporation’s net income. Interest rates are key drivers of the Corporation’s net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of Management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapidly changing interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of divergence in financial instrument maturities and/or competitive pressures. Further, substantially higher interest rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth particularly in real estate related loans, which have been a significant portion of the Corporation’s revenue growth over the past two years. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between the interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. Changes in interest rates might also impact the values of equity and debt securities under management and administration by the Bank’s Wealth Management Division which may have a negative impact on fee income. See the section captioned “Net Interest Income” in the MD&A of the 2008 Annual Report for additional details regarding interest rate risk. 12 Table of Contents • A continued general economic slowdown could further impact Wealth Management Division revenues and impair the value of goodwill and other intangibles related to the Wealth Management business A continued general economic slowdown might further decrease the value of Wealth Management Division assets under management and administration resulting in lower fee income. Such an economic downturn might also result in Wealth Management Division clients seeking alternative investment opportunities with other providers, resulting in lower fee income to the Corporation. Revenue in BMTC’s core wealth management business in 2008 decreased due to the downturn in the fair value of the financial markets, as fees are based on assets under management. Overall, revenue for Wealth Management services in 2008 increased $340 thousand from December 31, 2007 due to the mid-year acquisition of Lau Associates. Revenue for Lau Associates is based on a fee for service model, not assets under management. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets could further reduce wealth management revenue and might impair the value of the Corporation’s mid-year acquisition of Lau Associates, even though their revenue structure is not directly dependent on the fair value of wealth assets being serviced. Under the terms of the July 15, 2008 Lau Associates acquisition, the Corporation has three additional earn-out payments due in the first quarter of each of 2010, 2011 and 2012 (which will each be recorded at the end of 2009, 2010, and 2011). The maximum purchase price for the acquisition will not exceed $19 million (approximately $10 million of which has already been paid). • The financial services industry is very competitive The Corporation faces competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services such as trust and investment management services throughout the Corporation’s market area. The Corporation’s competitors include other community banks, larger banking institutions, trust companies and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, registered investment advisors, financial planning firms, leasing companies, government-sponsored enterprises, on-line banking enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Corporation. This is especially evident in regard to advertising and public relations spending. For a more complete discussion of our competitive environment, see “BUSINESS—COMPETITION” in Item 1 above. If the Corporation is unable to compete effectively, the Corporation will lose market share and income from deposits, loans, and other products may be reduced. • Decreased residential mortgage origination, volume and pricing decisions of competitors The Corporation originates, sells and services residential mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates and pricing decisions by our loan competitors affect demand for the Corporation’s residential mortgage loan products, the revenue realized on the sale of loans and revenues received from servicing such loans for others, ultimately reducing the Corporation’s net income. New regulations may be introduced to the residential mortgage origination market due to issues resulting from the 2007/2008 “sub-prime” mortgage crisis. These new regulations may increase costs and make it more difficult to operate a residential mortgage origination business. • There is no assurance that recently enacted legislation discussed above and in the sections of the 2008 Annual Report titled Regulatory Matters and Pending Legislation and Effect of Government Monetary Policy will stabilize the financial industry as intended. Since these programs are relatively new and are continuously changing, it is difficult to accurately determine the impact participating or not participating in these programs will have on the Corporation. • Additional risk factors also include the following, all of which may reduce revenues and/or increase expenses and/or pull Management’s attention away from core banking operations which may ultimately reduce the Corporation’s net income • Inability to hire or retain key professionals, management and staff • Changes in securities analysts estimates of financial performance • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes 13 Table of Contents • Rumors or erroneous information • Changes in market values of similar companies • New developments in the banking industry • Variations in quarterly or annual operating results • New litigation or changes in existing litigation • Regulatory actions • Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 