Item 1A. Risk Factors It is difficult to evaluate our business because we are in an early stage of development and our technology is untested and successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time We are in the early stages of developing our business, particularly with respect to commercializing our products. We received regulatory approval for AzaSite in April 2007 and commercial sales of AzaSite began in the third quarter of 2007. We must receive approval in other countries prior to marketing AzaSite in such countries. Before regulatory authorities grant us marketing approval for additional products, we need to conduct significant additional research and development and preclinical and clinical testing and submit a NDA. Successful development of pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain. Products that appear promising in research or development, including ISV-502, may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for several reasons, including: § preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; § failure to receive the necessary U.S. and international regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies; extended length of time to achieve study endpoints; additional time requirements for data analysis or BLA or NDA preparation; discussions with the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration (FDA); FDA requests for additional preclinical or clinical data; analyses or changes to study design; or unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues; § clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; § difficulties in formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing; § even if safe and effective, manufacturing costs, pricing, reimbursement issues, or other factors may make the product uneconomical; § proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; or § is not able to compete with superior, equivalent, more cost-effective or more effectively promoted products offered by competitors. Therefore, our research and development activities, including ISV-502, may not result in any commercially viable products. We have a history of operating losses and we expect to continue to have losses in the future We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception in 1986 and have pursued numerous drug development candidates that did not prove to have commercial potential. We expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future or until we are able to achieve significant royalties or other revenues from sales of our products. Attaining significant revenue or profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with third parties, to develop our potential products successfully, conduct clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and manufacture and market our products successfully. We may not ever achieve or be able to maintain significant revenue or profitability, including with respect to AzaSite, our lead product which has not yet been commercially launched outside the United States. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement and it is unclear whether the results of such clinical trials will be favorable We recently completed our Phase 3(a) clinical trial for our ISV-502 product candidate. Human clinical trials for our product candidates are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials for ISV-502 and any 15 other product candidates may take over a year to complete. Furthermore, we could encounter problems that might cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials resulting in additional expense, further delays and potentially preventing the completion of such trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed or terminated due to several factors, including: § unforeseen safety issues; § lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; § difficulty in determining dosing and trial protocols; § slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; § inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and § inability or unwillingness of clinical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our submissions or the conduct of these trials. In any such case, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in which case we would not obtain any benefit from our substantial investment in developing the product and conducting clinical trials for such products. The results of our clinical trials may not support our product candidate claims Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that the results will support our product candidate claims. Even if pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials for a product candidate are successful, this does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing or meet our expectations. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans or effective for indicated uses. In addition, our clinical trials involve relatively small patient populations. Because of the small sample size, the results of these clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. Any such failure would likely cause us to abandon the product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay or preclude the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. Preliminary results from the Phase 3(a) clinical trial of ISV-502 for the treatment of blepharoconjunctivitis showed improved clinical outcomes as compared to treatment with a corticosteroid alone or antibiotic alone in the reduction of inflammatory signs and symptoms and bacterial eradication, respectively. In addition, ISV-502 was very well tolerated. However, an evaluation of the data indicated that the trial did not achieve its primary endpoint as defined by the protocol. The Company will utilize data from this Phase 3(a) trial in the finalization of a planned confirmatory Phase 3 clinical study. The Company anticipates discussing the results of this trial with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the second quarter of 2009. Following these discussions, the Company will announce anticipated timing for initiating a second Phase 3 clinical trial. Our strategy for commercialization of our products requires us to enter into successful arrangements with corporate collaborators We generally intend to enter into future partnering and collaborative arrangements with respect to the commercialization of our product candidates, such as ISV-502. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such arrangements or that they will be beneficial to us. The success of our partnering and collaboration arrangements will depend upon many factors, including: § the progress and results of our preclinical and clinical testing and research and development programs; § the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; § our ability to negotiate favorable terms with potential collaborators; § the efforts and success of our collaborators in marketing the product; § our ability to prosecute, defend and enforce patent claims and other intellectual property rights; § the outcome of possible future legal actions; and § competing technological and market developments. 16 We may not be able to conclude arrangements with third parties to support the commercialization of our products on acceptable terms, or at all, and may not be able to maintain any arrangement that we do enter into. The commercial success of our products is dependent on the diligent efforts of our corporate collaborators Because we generally rely on third parties for the marketing and sale of our products, revenues that we receive will be highly dependent on the efforts of these third parties, particularly our partner Inspire. These partners may terminate their relationships with us and may not diligently or successfully market or sell our products. These partners may also pursue alternative or competing technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. In addition, marketing consultants and contract sales organizations that we may use in the future for our products may market products that compete with our products and we must rely on their efforts and ability to market and sell our products effectively. If we fail to enter into future collaborations or our current collaborations are terminated, we will need to enter into new collaborations or establish our own sales and marketing organization We may not be able to enter into or maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties. If we are not successful in entering into future collaborations or maintaining our existing collaborations, particularly with Inspire, we may be required to find new corporate collaborators or establish our own sales and marketing organization. Under the terms of the Inspire License, Inspire may terminate the agreement at any time. We have no experience in sales, marketing or distribution and establishing such an organization will be costly. Moreover, there is no guarantee that a sales and marketing organization would be successful once established. If we are unable to enter into additional collaborations or successfully market our products ourselves, our revenues and financial results would be significantly harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to engage third parties to assist us with the development of new products, new indications for existing products, and in the conduct of our clinical trials to achieve regulatory approval for commercialization and any failure or delay by those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our development and commercialization plans For our business model to succeed, we must continually develop new products or discover new indications for our existing products. As part of that process, we rely on third parties such as clinical research organizations, clinical investigators and outside testing labs for development activities such as Phase 2 and/or Phase 3 clinical testing and to assist us in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of their responsibilities but have no control over how these parties manage their businesses and cannot assure you that such parties will diligently or effectively perform their activities. For example, the clinical investigators conducting our clinical trials, including our recent Phase 3(a) trial for ISV-502, are not our employees. However, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with applicable protocols, rules and regulations or in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial as well as the various rules and regulations governing clinical trials in the U.S. and abroad. Any failure by those parties to perform their duties effectively and on a timely basis could harm our ability to develop and commercialize new products and harm our business. Physicians and patients may not accept or use our products Even if the FDA approves our product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept or use them. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: § perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our products; § cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; § actual or perceived benefits of competing products or treatments; § physicians’ comfort level and prior experience with and use of competing products; 17 § availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; and § effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors. We may require additional licenses or be subject to expensive and uncertain patent litigation in order to sell our products A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our business. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with our technologies or patent applications. As is common in the pharmaceutical and biotech industry, from time to time we receive notices from third parties alleging various challenges to our patent rights, and we investigate the merits of each allegation that we receive. Such conflicts, if proven, could invalidate our issued patents, limit the scope of the patents, if any, that we may be able to obtain, result in the denial of our patent applications or block our rights to exploit our technology. If the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or foreign patent agencies have issued or in the future issue patents to other companies that cover our activities, we may not be able to obtain licenses to these patents at a reasonable cost, or at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. If we do not obtain such licenses, we could encounter delays in or be precluded altogether from introducing products to the market. If we are required to obtain additional licenses from third parties with respect to the February 2008 issuance of $60 million in aggregate principal amount of non-convertible, non-recourse promissory notes due in 2019, or the AzaSite Notes in the United States and Canada, we will be required to pay such amounts from our existing cash. We may need to litigate in order to defend against claims of infringement by others, to enforce patents issued to us or to protect trade secrets or know-how owned or licensed by us. Litigation could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, which may harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Such costs can be particularly harmful to companies such as ours without significant existing revenue streams or cash resources. We have also agreed to indemnify our licensees against infringement claims by third parties related to our technology, which could result in additional litigation costs and liability for us. In addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us, thereby utilizing our limited resources for purposes other than product development and commercialization. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: § obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; § redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; § stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could preclude us from commercializing our products; § pay damages; or § defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our valuable management resources. Our business depends upon our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to protect, enforce or secure our intellectual property rights adequately Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain patents, protect trade secrets, obtain and maintain rights to technology developed by others, and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. A substantial number of patents in the field of ophthalmology and genetics have been issued to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Moreover, competitors may have filed patent applications, may have been issued patents or may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or processes competitive with ours. Our patent applications may not be approved. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. Even if we receive patent issuances, those issued patents may not be able to provide us with adequate protection for our inventions or may be challenged by others. 18 Furthermore, the patents of others may impair our ability to commercialize our products. The patent positions of firms in the pharmaceutical and genetic industries generally are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions, and have recently been the subject of significant litigation. The USPTO and the courts have not developed, formulated, or presented a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under pharmaceutical and genetic patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any of our patents. In addition, third parties from whom we have licensed or otherwise obtained technology may attempt to terminate or scale back our rights. We also depend upon unpatented trade secrets to maintain our competitive position. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our trade secrets may also be disclosed, and we may not be able to protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets effectively. To the extent that we, our consultants or our research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others, disputes also may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. In certain circumstances, we may lose the potential to receive future royalty payments after the AzaSite Notes are repaid in full or we may be required to pay damages for breaches of representations, warranties or covenants under certain of the AzaSite Note Financing Agreements. In February 2008, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we issued $60 million in aggregate principal amount of AzaSite Notes, which are secured principally by royalty payments from future sales of AzaSite in North America, but not the right to receive such payments, and by a pledge by us of all the outstanding equity interest in our subsidiary. If the AzaSite royalty payments are insufficient to repay the AzaSite Notes or if an event of default occurs under the indenture governing the AzaSite Notes, in certain circumstances, the royalty payments and our equity interest in our subsidiary may be foreclosed upon and we would lose the potential to receive future royalty payments after the AzaSite Notes are repaid in full and our intellectual property and other rights related to AzaSite. In addition, in connection with the issuance of the AzaSite Notes, we have made certain representations, warranties and covenants to our subsidiary and the holders of the AzaSite Notes, or the Noteholders. If we breach these representations, warranties or covenants, such breach could trigger an event of default under the indenture and we could also be liable to our subsidiary or the Noteholders for substantial damages in respect of any such breach, which could harm our financial condition and ability to conduct our business as currently planned. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein for a more complete description of the terms of the AzaSite Notes. Inspire’s failure to successfully market and commercialize AzaSite would harm sales of AzaSite and, therefore, would delay or prevent repayment of the AzaSite Notes, which would delay or prevent us from receiving future revenue from sales of AzaSite. The AzaSite Notes issued by our subsidiary will be repaid solely from royalties on net sales of AzaSite in the United States and Canada by Inspire under the Inspire Agreement. Inspire has assumed full control of all promotional, sales and marketing activities for AzaSite in these territories, and has sole control over the pricing of AzaSite. Accordingly, royalty payments in respect of net sales of AzaSite in the United States and, upon regulatory approval, in Canada, will be entirely dependent on the actions, efforts and success of Inspire, over whom neither we nor our subsidiary have control. The success of Inspire’s commercialization of AzaSite and the timely repayment of the AzaSite Notes will depend on a number of factors, including: · the scope of Inspire’s launch of AzaSite in the United States and Canada; · the effectiveness and extent of Inspire’s promotional, sales and marketing efforts; · Inspire’s ability to build, train and retain an effective sales force; · Inspire’s ability to successfully sell AzaSite to physicians and patients; · Inspire’s pricing decisions regarding AzaSite; · Inspire’s marketing and selling of any current or future competing products; 19 · Inspire’s ability to compete against larger and more experienced competitors; · the discovery of any side effects or negative efficacy findings for AzaSite; · product recalls or product liability claims relating to AzaSite; · the introduction of generic competition; · if competing products for the treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis obtain more favorable formulary status than AzaSite; and · the relevant parties’ ability to adequately maintain or enforce the intellectual property rights relevant to AzaSite. Inspire has only recently established its sales force for AzaSite. Inspire has reported that it has incurred substantial expenses in establishing and maintaining its sales force for AzaSite, including substantial additional expenses for the training and management of personnel and the infrastructure to enable its sales force to be effective and compliant with the multiple laws and regulations affecting sales and promotion of pharmaceutical products. Although individual members of the sales force have experience in sales with other companies, Inspire did not have a sales force prior to 2004 and may experience difficulties building and maintaining its sales force, which could harm sales of AzaSite. Inspire is promoting AzaSite primarily to eye care professionals, and to a lesser degree, pediatricians and primary care providers. However, Inspire has no prior experience calling on pediatricians and primary care physicians and has focused its sales efforts on eye care professionals. Pediatricians and primary care physicians write more than 67% of prescriptions to ophthalmic antibiotics. A large number of pharmaceutical companies, including those with competing products, much larger sales forces and much greater financial resources, and those with products for indications that are completely unrelated to AzaSite, compete for the time and attention of pediatricians and primary care physicians. Neither we nor our subsidiary have any control over how Inspire manages and operates its sales force, how effective Inspire’s sales efforts will be or Inspire’s pricing decisions regarding AzaSite. In addition, Inspire depends on three pharmaceutical wholesalers for the vast majority of its AzaSite sales in the United States. These companies are Cardinal Health, McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen. The loss of any of these wholesalers could harm sales of AzaSite. It is also possible that these wholesalers, or others, could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, in the future. This could cause Inspire to incur higher product distribution costs, which would result in lower net sales of AzaSite. Inspire could experience financial or other difficulties unrelated to AzaSite that could adversely affect the marketing or sale of AzaSite. Moreover, Inspire could change its commercial strategy and deemphasize or sell or sublicense its rights to AzaSite. Neither we nor our subsidiary can prevent Inspire from developing or licensing a product that competes with AzaSite or limiting or withdrawing its support of AzaSite. Our subsidiary’s ability to pay amounts due on the AzaSite Notes may be materially harmed to the extent Inspire fails or is unable to successfully market and sell AzaSite. Our ability to receive future revenue from sales of AzaSite is dependent on our subsidiary repaying the AzaSite Notes in a timely fashion. If our subsidiary takes longer than anticipated to repay the AzaSite Notes, or if it defaults on the AzaSite Notes, in each case due to lower sales of AzaSite by Inspire for any of the reasons described above, or due to other unforeseen events, we may not receive future revenue from AzaSite as currently planned, or at all. Royalties under the Inspire License Agreement may not be sufficient for our subsidiary to meet its payment obligations under the AzaSite Notes. Inspire’s obligation to pay royalties on net sales of AzaSite under the Inspire Agreement expires on a country-by-country basis upon the later of 11 years from the first commercial sale of AzaSite, which, in the United States, is August 13, 2018, or when the last valid claim under one of our licensed patents covering a subject product under the Inspire Agreement in the United States and Canada expires. While our subsidiary will be entitled to minimum royalties under the Inspire Agreement from Inspire for five years after the first year of a commercial sale, such minimum royalties will not be sufficient for our subsidiary to meet its payment obligations under the AzaSite Notes and, therefore, it will be dependent on Inspire’s successful sales and marketing efforts for AzaSite in order for it to receive royalties in excess of these minimum amounts. In addition, Inspire’s obligation to pay minimum royalties is suspended during any period in which (i) the FDA or any other applicable 20 regulatory authority has required any Inspire licensed product to be withdrawn from the market or the marketing thereof otherwise to be suspended in the United States or (ii) Inspire is unable, despite use of commercially reasonable efforts, to obtain supply of any Inspire licensed product in finished form in commercially reasonable amounts necessary to launch or market such Inspire licensed product in the United States. Royalties under the Inspire Agreement are subject to a cumulative reduction or offset in the event of patent invalidity, generic competition, uncured material breaches by us or in the event that Inspire is required to pay royalties, milestone payments or license fees to third parties for the continued use of AzaSite. The applicable royalty rate is also subject to reduction by up to 50% in any country during any period in which AzaSite does not have patent protection. These cumulative reductions or offsets could result in our subsidiary receiving significantly reduced or no royalties under the Inspire Agreement, which would delay repayment of the AzaSite Notes, or result in a default under the AzaSite Notes. In such circumstances we may not receive future revenue from AzaSite as currently planned, or at all. If the Inspire Agreement is terminated in whole or in part while the AzaSite Notes remain outstanding, we will be forced to find a new third party collaborator for AzaSite, pursue commercialization efforts ourselves or else we will lose our right to certain intellectual property rights related to AzaSite to our subsidiary. In February 2008, in connection with our subsidiary’s issuance of the AzaSite Notes, we entered into the Residual License Agreement with our subsidiary. Under the terms of the Residual License Agreement, if the Inspire Agreement is terminated in the United States or Canada while the AzaSite Notes are outstanding, all of our rights to AzaSite in such country or countries will be licensed to our subsidiary and we have three months under the terms of the Interim Sublicense, which is a part of the Residual License, to find a new third party collaborator to undertake commercialization efforts with respect to AzaSite or pursue commercialization efforts ourselves in such country or countries. Inspire can terminate the Inspire Agreement unilaterally in a variety of circumstances, including at any time in its discretion. If the Inspire Agreement is terminated, our efforts to find a new third party collaborator or pursue direct commercialization efforts ourselves will divert the attention of senior management from our current business operations, which could delay the development or licensing of our other product candidates. If we elect to commercialize AzaSite ourselves, we may expend significant resources as we currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or experience, and have no current plans to establish any such resources, which could harm our financial condition and results of operation. If we are unsuccessful in finding a new third party collaborator for AzaSite or elect not to pursue commercialization efforts ourselves, the Interim Sublicense will terminate and our subsidiary will retain all rights to the intellectual property with respect to AzaSite in the related country or countries in which the Inspire Agreement was terminated. If the Interim Sublicense terminates in accordance with the Residual License Agreement, our subsidiary may grant a sublicense under the license granted under the Residual License Agreement or pursue commercialization efforts itself. In any such circumstances, our subsidiary will remit for payment on the AzaSite Notes any royalties and other payments arising from the exercise of the license under the Residual License Agreement. As all economic value arising from the intellectual property subject to the Inspire Agreement shall remain with our subsidiary (whether or not the Inspire Agreement remains in effect and whether or not our subsidiary continues to be owned by us or our equity in the subsidiary is foreclosed upon by the Noteholders), while the AzaSite Notes are outstanding and following repayment thereof, we may never receive any future royalties or economic benefit from AzaSite and may lose rights to the intellectual property relating thereto. We rely on a sole source for the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for AzaSite. We currently have a single supplier for azithromycin, the active drug incorporated into AzaSite. Under the Inspire License Agreement and the Inspire Supply Agreement, we have agreed to provide a supply of azithromycin to Inspire for the manufacture of AzaSite in the Territory, which we currently arrange through one supplier. The supplier of azithromycin has a drug master file on the compound with the FDA and is subject to the FDA’s review and oversight. The supplier’s manufacturing facility is subject to potential natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires or explosions, and other interruptions in operation due to factors including labor unrest or strikes, failures of utility services or microbial or other contamination. If the supplier failed or refused to continue to supply us, if the FDA were to identify issues in the production of azithromycin that the supplier was unable to resolve quickly and cost-effectively, or if other issues were to arise that impact production, Inspire’s ability to manufacture and commercialize AzaSite could be interrupted, and our subsidiary’s ability to pay amounts due on the AzaSite Notes may be materially harmed, which could prevent or delay our ability to receive future revenue from AzaSite. Additional suppliers for azithromycin exist, but qualification of an alternative 21 source could be time consuming and expensive and, during such qualification process, could negatively impact the sales of AzaSite. There is also no guarantee that these additional suppliers can supply sufficient quantities or quality product at a reasonable price, or at all. While we are required to maintain a certain level of inventory of azithromycin to support Inspire’s manufacturing needs, this amount may not be sufficient to prevent an interruption in the availability of AzaSite. In addition, certain of the raw materials that we use in formulating DuraSite, the drug delivery system used in AzaSite, are available only from Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc., or Lubrizol. Although we do not have a current supply agreement with Lubrizol, we have not encountered any difficulties obtaining necessary materials from Lubrizol. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials could delay sales of AzaSite, which could then harm our subsidiary’s ability to pay amounts due on the AzaSite Notes and affect our ability to receive future revenue from AzaSite. We have experienced senior management departures, which could harm our ability to attract and retain key employees. Dr. S. Kumar Chandrasekaran, our former chief executive officer and president, concluded his employment with us in October 2008 and Louis Drapeau, our vice president and chief financial officer, was appointed to succeed him in the position of interim chief executive officer. The new Board of Directors elected September 23, 2008 has commenced a search for a new chief executive officer. While this search has been suspended until we further execute on our strategic priorities, there is no guarantee this search will be successful when, and if, recommenced. There is no guarantee that Mr. Drapeau will remain at our Company until a new chief executive officer can be recruited or for an extended period of time. We are currently highly dependent on Mr. Drapeau and the loss of Mr. Drapeau’s services could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of planned development objectives. Furthermore, the changes in the composition of our Board of Directors and chief executive officer may cause us to lose additional employees and may harm the ability of our senior management team to coalesce, motivate our employees and address challenges faced by our Company. We are also highly dependent on Dr. Lyle Bowman, our vice president, development. We do not carry a life insurance policy on Mr. Drapeau or on Dr. Bowman. A critical factor to our success will be recruiting and retaining additional qualified personnel. Competition for skilled individuals in the biotechnology business, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area is highly intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. Our ability to attract and retain such individuals may be reduced by our current financial situation and the challenges faced by our Company The loss of key personnel, the failure to recruit additional personnel or to develop needed expertise would harm our business. We may not successfully manage growth Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage this growth, we will have to expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel, all of which will cause us to incur significant additional expense and may not be accomplished effectively. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. Our products are subject to government regulations and approvals which may delay or prevent the marketing of potential products and impose costly procedures upon our activities The FDA and comparable agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon preclinical and clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Lengthy and detailed preclinical and clinical testing, validation of manufacturing and quality control processes, and other costly and time-consuming procedures are required. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes several years and the time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. The effect of government regulation may be to delay or to prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and to impose costly procedures upon our activities. The FDA or any other regulatory agency may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all, for any products we develop. Success in preclinical or early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. Further, even after we have obtained regulatory approval, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the 22 product from the market. Moreover, the FDA has recently reduced previous restrictions on the marketing, sale and prescription of products for indications other than those specifically approved by the FDA. Accordingly, even if we receive FDA approval of a product for certain indicated uses, our competitors, including our collaborators, could market products for such indications even if such products have not been specifically approved for such indications. If the FDA determines regulatory approval is required, any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals would make it difficult or impossible to market our products and would harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our potential products. Moreover, increased attention to the containment of health care costs in the United States could result in new government regulations that could harm our business. Adverse governmental regulation might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. See “Uncertainties regarding healthcare reform and third-party reimbursement may impair our ability to raise capital, form collaborations and sell our products.” We have no experience in commercial manufacturing and if contract manufacturing is not available to us or does not satisfy regulatory requirements, we will have to establish our own regulatory compliant manufacturing capability and may not have the financial resources to do so We have no experience manufacturing products for Phase 3 and commercial purposes at our own facility. We have a pilot facility licensed by the State of California to manufacture a number of our products for Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials but not for late stage clinical trials or commercial purposes. Any delays or difficulties that we may encounter in establishing and maintaining a relationship with qualified manufacturers to produce, package and distribute our finished products may harm our clinical trials, regulatory filings, market introduction and subsequent sales of our products. Contract manufacturers must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations that are strictly enforced by the FDA on an ongoing basis through the FDA’s facilities inspection program. Contract manufacturing facilities must pass a pre-approval plant inspection before the FDA will approve a NDA. Some of the material manufacturing changes that occur after approval are also subject to FDA review and clearance or approval. While the FDA has approved the AzaSite manufacturing process and facility, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not approve the process or the facilities by which any of our other products may be manufactured. Our dependence on third parties to manufacture our products may harm our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. Should we be required to manufacture products ourselves, we: § will be required to expend significant amounts of capital to install a manufacturing capability; § will be subject to the regulatory requirements described above; § will be subject to similar risks regarding delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing any such products; and § will require substantially more additional capital than we otherwise may require. Therefore, we may not be able to manufacture any products successfully or in a cost-effective manner. We compete in highly competitive markets and our competitors’ financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and human resources may surpass ours and limit our ability to develop and/or market our products and technologies Our success depends upon developing and maintaining a competitive advantage in the development of products and technologies in our areas of focus. We have many competitors in the United States and abroad, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies with varying resources and degrees of concentration in the ophthalmic market. Our competitors may have existing products or products under development which may be technically superior to ours or which may be less costly or more acceptable to the market. Our competitors may obtain cost advantages, patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would block or limit our ability to develop our potential products. Competition from these companies is intense and is expected to increase as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and human resources than we 23 do, particularly in light of our current financial condition. In addition, they may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective, safer, less expensive or otherwise more commercially acceptable than any that we have or will develop. Our competitors may also obtain regulatory approval for commercialization of their products more effectively or rapidly than we will. If we decide to manufacture and market our products by ourselves, we will be competing in areas in which we have limited or no experience such as manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will be harmed. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have products competitive with AzaSite already approved or in development, including Zymar and Ocuflox by Allergan, Vigamox and Ciloxan by Alcon, and Quixin by Johnson & Johnson. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: § developing drugs; § undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; § obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; § formulating and manufacturing drugs; § launching, marketing and selling drugs; and § attracting qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. Uncertainties regarding healthcare reform and third-party reimbursement may impair our ability to raise capital, form collaborations and sell our products The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means may harm our business. For example, in some foreign markets, the pricing or profitability of health care products is subject to government control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government control. The implementation or even the announcement of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals or reforms could harm our business by reducing the prices we or our partners are able to charge for our products impeding our ability to achieve profitability, raise capital or form collaborations. In addition, the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers determines, in large part, the demand for healthcare products in the United States and elsewhere. Examples of such third-party payers are government and private insurance plans. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products and third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, reimbursement from third-party payers may not be available or may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive or profitable basis. Our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our potential product liability exposure We are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is expensive. Although we 24 believe our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover likely claims we may encounter given our current stage of development and activities, our present product liability insurance coverage will not be adequate to cover all potential claims we may encounter, particularly as AzaSite is commercialized outside the United States and Canada. Once AzaSite is commercialized in other countries, we may have to increase our coverage, which will be expensive, and we may not be able to obtain or afford adequate insurance coverage against potential claims in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost. Our use of hazardous materials may pose environmental risks and liabilities which may cause us to incur significant costs Our research, development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of small amounts of hazardous solvents used in pharmaceutical development and manufacturing, including acetic acid, acetone, acrylic acid, calcium chloride, chloroform, dimethyl sulfoxide, ethyl alcohol, hydrogen chloride, nitric acid, phosphoric acid and other similar solvents. We retain a licensed outside contractor that specializes in the disposal of hazardous materials used in the biotechnology industry to properly dispose of these materials, but we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Our cost for the disposal services rendered by our outside contractor was not material for the years ended 2008, 2007, or 2006, respectively. In the event of an accident involving these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Moreover, as our business develops we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and policies, especially to the extent that we manufacture our own products. If we engage in acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may never be realized We may pursue acquisitions of companies, product lines, technologies or businesses that our management believes are complementary or otherwise beneficial to us. Any of these acquisitions could have a negative effect on our business. Future acquisitions may result in substantial dilution to our stockholders, the expenditure of our current cash resources, the incurrence of additional debt and amortization expenses related to goodwill, research and development and other intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions would involve many risks for us, including: § assimilating employees, operations, technologies and products from the acquired companies with our existing employees, operations, technologies and products; § diverting our management’s attention from day-to-day operation of our business; § entering markets in which we have no or limited direct experience; and § potentially losing key employees from the acquired companies. If we fail to adequately manage these risks we may not achieve the intended benefits from our acquisitions. Management and principal stockholders may be able to exert significant control on matters requiring approval by our stockholders As of December 31, 2008, our management and principal stockholders (those owning more than 5% of our outstanding shares) together beneficially owned approximately 33% of shares of common stock. In addition, investors in our March/June 2004 and May 2005 private placements, as a group, owned approximately 13% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2008. If such investors were to exercise the warrants they currently hold, assuming no additional acquisitions, sales or distributions, such investors would own approximately 23% of our outstanding shares of common stock based on their ownership percentages as of December 31, 2008. As a result, these two groups of stockholders, acting together or as individual groups, may be able to exert significant control on matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all or at least a majority of our Board of Directors, amendments to our charter, and the approval of business combinations and certain financing transactions. A group of our stockholders recently prevailed in a proxy contest that resulted in the replacement of all members of our Board of Directors. 25 The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as ours have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile due to reasons that are related and unrelated to our operating performance and progress; we have not paid dividends in the past and do not anticipate doing so in the future The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, future announcements and circumstances, the status of our relationships or proposed relationships with third-party collaborators, the results of testing and clinical trials, the exercise of outstanding options and warrants that could result in dilution to our current holders of common stock, developments in patent or other proprietary rights of us or our competitors, our or Inspire’s failure to meet analyst expectations, any litigation regarding the same, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. For example, in the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, our closing stock price fluctuated from a high of $0.87 to a low of $0.18. Such fluctuations can lead to securities class action litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our common stock may be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange Alternext US On February 26, 2009, the Company received a notice from NYSE Alternext US LLC, or the Exchange, that our common stock is subject to immediate delisting proceedings because we were not in compliance with (a) Section 1003(a)(i) of the Exchange’s Company Guide, or the Company Guide, because our shareholders’ equity was less than the required $2,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in two of our three most recent fiscal years or (b) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide because our shareholders’ equity was less than the required $4,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years. The Company has requested an oral hearing to appeal the determination. There is no assurance that the decision will be overturned at this hearing. If the decision is not overturned, our common stock would be subject to delisting proceedings immediately following the hearing. Delisting would harm the trading volume and liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price for our common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also cause a reduction in the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, transactions in our common stock could be delayed, and securities analysts’ and news media coverage of us may be further reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of common stock. Delisting could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We have adopted and are subject to anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our Company and could prevent or make it more difficult to replace or remove current management Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may constrain or discourage a third party from acquiring or attempting to acquire control of us. Such provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, such provisions could also prevent or make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove current management and could adversely affect the price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts, business combinations or management changes that stockholders consider in their best interest. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, or Preferred Stock, 7,070 of which have been designated as Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and 15,000 of which have been designated as Series A-1 Preferred Stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the remaining unissued shares of Preferred Stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Preferred Stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible financings, acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, even if the transaction might be desired by 26 our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law applicable to us could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless conditions set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law are met. The issuance of Preferred Stock or Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law could also be deemed to benefit incumbent management to the extent these provisions deter offers by persons who would wish to make changes in management or exercise control over management. Other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a takeover attempt or management changes that our stockholders might consider in their best interest. For example, our bylaws limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors and fill vacancies on our Board of Directors. Our bylaws also impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors and prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings or acting by written consent. If earthquakes and other catastrophic events strike, our business may be negatively affected Our corporate headquarters, including our research and development and pilot plant operations, are located in the San Francisco Bay area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster such as an earthquake would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we were able to schedule use of the equipment at our contract manufacturing site we could conduct our pilot plant operations however, we would incur significant additional costs and delays in our product development time-lines. We face the risk of a decrease in our cash balances and losses in our investment portfolio Our investment policy is structured to limit credit risk and manage interest rate risk. By policy, we only invest in what we view as very high quality debt securities, such as U.S. Government securities. However, the recent uncertainties in the credit markets could prevent us from liquidating our positions in securities that we currently believe constitute high quality investments and could also result in the loss of some or all of our principal if the issuer of such securities defaults on its credit obligations. Following completion of our $60.0 million financing on February 21, 2008, investment income will likely become a more substantial component of our net income. The ability to achieve our investment objectives is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our interest income will be affected by changes in interest rates, which are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. The outlook for our investment income is dependent on the future direction of interest rates and the amount of cash flows from operations, if any, that are available for investment. Any significant decline in our investment income or the value of our investments as a result of falling interest rates, deterioration in the credit of the securities in which we have invested or general market conditions, could harm our ability to liquidate our investments, our cash position and our net income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 