ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. We have a history of losses and our future operating results could be harmed due to semiconductor industry business cycles. We have sustained substantial net losses during the four fiscal years prior to fiscal 2006. These net losses are attributable principally to delays in the television broadcast industry's transition to high definition digital broadcasting from current analog standards, a downturn in the semiconductor industry, and lack of new product introductions. Many factors will affect our ability to become profitable or sustain profitability, such as continued demand for our products by our customers, lack of price erosion, efficiency of our manufacturing subcontractors, continued product innovation and design wins, and our continued ability to manage operating expenses. We produce and sell semiconductors and our operations are therefore impacted by the repeated and severe business cycles that have historically been experienced by the semiconductor industry. Our financial performance has been negatively impacted by significant downturns in the semiconductor industry as a result of: general reductions in inventory levels by customers; excess production capacity; the cyclical nature of the demand for products of semiconductor customers; and accelerated declines in average product selling prices. When these or other conditions in the industry occur, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We are a small company with very limited resources compared to our current and potential competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively in our highly competitive industry. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, and sales resources. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our operating results could be harmed. The current level of competition is high and may increase as our market expands. We compete directly with companies that have developed similar products. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products and solutions based on alternative technologies. These direct and indirect competitors are established multinational semiconductor companies, as well as emerging companies. In addition, we may experience additional competition from foreign companies in the future. We depend on a limited number of customers for a majority of our sales and our sales orders are typically concentrated in the last month of every quarter, making our financial results particularly susceptible to the loss of a key customer and making sales in a quarter difficult to predict. We anticipate that the concentration of our sales among relatively few customers will continue in the future. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from any of our customers. Therefore, these customers could cease purchasing our products with limited notice and with no penalty. Our dependence on a small number of customers increases the risks associated with the potential loss of customers resulting from business combinations or consolidations. If a customer were acquired or combined with another company, the resulting company could cancel purchase orders as part of the integration process. In addition, we ship more products during the third month of each quarter than in the first two months of the quarter. Moreover, shipments in the third month are generally higher toward the end of the month. Our sales are therefore concentrated in the latter part of each quarter, making it difficult to predict our revenues and results of operations for any fiscal quarter or other fiscal period. Continued delay in High Definition Television (HDTV) broadcasting could adversely impact sales of our HDTV application products. Beginning in November 1998, the Federal Communications Commission directed that television broadcasters begin a transition from current analog broadcasts to HDTV broadcasts. All analog broadcasts were originally scheduled to cease by 2006, but this deadline has been moved to 2009. We developed in fiscal 1998 and tested in fiscal 1999, products that were designed-in (incorporated) into HDTV compatible studio systems. Since fiscal 2000, sales of these HDTV-related products have not met expectations, and we anticipate that our future revenues will be adversely affected if the slow transition persists. We depend on third parties to fabricate silicon wafers and to assemble and test our products, which exposes us to a risk of production disruption or uncontrolled price changes. We do not manufacture silicon wafers. We rely upon two wafer suppliers, each of which is the sole source for certain of our products, and two assembly/test subcontractors. These suppliers do not have a contractual obligation or commitment to supply such wafers or services in the future. If the suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply wafers or services, our operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to find sufficient suppliers at a reasonable price or at all if such disruptions occur. As a result of our reliance on third parties, we face significant risks, including: reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; longer lead times; the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess industry demand; difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; limited warranties on products supplied to us; potential increases in prices due to capacity shortages; and potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. If we fail to deliver our products on time or if the costs of our products increase, then our profitability and customer relationships could be harmed. Our international operations subject us to risks not present in solely domestic operations. Our primary silicon wafer supplier and assembly subcontractors are located in Asia, primarily in South Korea and Taiwan. Economic, financial, social, and political conditions in Asia have been volatile. Financial difficulties, government actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, or any other difficulties experienced by our suppliers could harm future operating results. We also have many overseas customers. Our export sales are affected by unique risks frequently associated with foreign economics, including: governmental controls and trade restrictions; export license requirements and restrictions on the export of technology; changes in local economic conditions; political instability; changes in tax rates, tariffs, or freight rates; interruptions in air traffic; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offices. Significant changes in the economic climate in the foreign countries from which we derive our export sales could harm future operating results. The complex nature of semiconductors makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems could have a negative impact on future operating results. Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even minute imperfections in its materials, difficulties in the wafer fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on each wafer to be nonfunctional. We may experience problems in achieving an acceptable quality and yield rate in the manufacture of wafers. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable yields could harm future operating results. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations, and in the introduction of new packaging materials. We depend on third parties to deliver our products. We rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to transport our products between manufacturing locations and to deliver products to our customers. Any transport or delivery problems because of their errors, or because of unforeseen interruptions, such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters and accidents, could harm future operating results. Earthquakes, other natural disasters, and power shortages may damage our business. Our California facility and some of our suppliers are located near earthquake faults that have experienced major earthquakes in the past. In addition, the risk of power shortages and outages in California has been widely reported. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster near our facility or a sustained loss of power at our facility, our operations could be harmed. Similarly, a major earthquake or other natural disaster near one or more of our suppliers could disrupt the operations of these suppliers, which could limit the supply of our products and harm our business. We maintain high levels of inventory that decrease our liquidity and substantially increase the risk of write-offs. We have historically maintained and expect to continue to maintain high levels of inventory of processed silicon wafers, packaging materials, and finished goods. For some product types, we must purchase all of our anticipated inventory needs for the life of the product in a short period of time. We commit capital to maintain these high inventory levels, which prevents us from using that capital for other purposes, such as research and development, and requires us to utilize more capital than might otherwise be required. Our high inventory levels also heighten the risk of inventory obsolescence and write-offs. Further, we may forecast demand incorrectly and produce insufficient inventory, resulting in supply shortages. We currently have no bank credit facility and must rely solely upon existing cash reserves and funds from existing operations to finance future operations. Although we sustained substantial net losses during fiscal 2005, and 2004, our cash flows from operations were positive during these fiscal years, due to reductions in accounts receivable and inventory and our cost reduction efforts. However, these reductions are unlikely to continue indefinitely. Furthermore, significant investments, such as those made in fiscal 2005, could result in net cash outflows. We rely upon cash reserves and available-for-sale securities to fund our operations. If these resources should be insufficient, we would be forced to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financing. If we are able to obtain debt financing, which is not assured, the terms of such financing are unknown, since we do not presently have a credit facility, and may be unfavorable to us. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell capital stock on favorable terms or at all and any such sales may adversely affect our existing shareholders. Our operating success depends upon our ability to develop new products and access new technologies. The semiconductor industry is a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. Our future success depends on our ability to introduce new or improved products that meet critical customer needs, while achieving acceptable profit margins. If we fail to introduce these new products in a timely manner or these products fail to achieve market acceptance, operating results would be harmed. The introduction of new products in a dynamic market environment presents significant business challenges. Product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales, while the success of new products depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technology developments. Future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of new products, such as our newly introduced video frame buffer products, the LF3324 and LF3312, and the continued market acceptance of existing products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors, including: successful product definition; timely and efficient completion of product design; timely design into customers' future products and maintenance of close working relationships with customers; timely and efficient access to wafer manufacturing and assembly processes; and product performance, quality and reliability. If, due to these or other factors, new products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results would be harmed. Furthermore, to develop new products and maintain the competitiveness of existing products, we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing processes that use larger wafer sizes and smaller geometries. The loss of key personnel or failure to hire and retain additional qualified personnel could impair our ability to develop and market our products. Our future success greatly depends on the ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. As a small company, we are particularly dependent on a relatively small group of employees. Competition for skilled technical and management employees is intense in the semiconductor industry. As a result, we may be unable to retain our existing key technical and management employees, or attract additional qualified personnel, which could harm operating results. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights, or the costs of protecting these rights, may harm our ability to compete. We own several patents but rely primarily on our design know-how and continued access to advanced wafer process technology to develop and maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and customers. However, competitors may develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology, or reverse engineer our products. Our inability to adequately protect these proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially causing us to lose a competitive advantage and leading to decreased revenue. We may not obtain an adequate remedy in the event our confidentiality agreements are breached or any remedy if our trade secrets are independently developed by others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing intellectual property laws afford only limited protection, especially under the laws of some foreign countries. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We could be harmed by litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights. As a general matter, the semiconductor and related industries are characterized by substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have been and in the future may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Furthermore, we may have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products. Infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers or end-users of our products resulting from infringement claims may be asserted in the future and such assertions, if proven to be true, may harm our business. Any litigation relating to the intellectual property rights of third parties, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, could be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of management and engineering personnel. In the event of any adverse ruling in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement. A license might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. We have adopted certain anti-takeover, indemnification and limited liability provisions which may adversely affect our stock price. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan that is designed to make a change of control through the acquisition of large amounts of our common stock, or through a tender offer to our shareholders, prohibitively expensive unless our board of directors has approved the transaction. Our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws also provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors and insulate our directors from monetary liability for certain breaches of their duty of care to us. These provisions may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control without action by our shareholders, and therefore could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and our trading volume may continue to be relatively low. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the future, the market price of the common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: our anticipated or actual operating results; announcements or introductions of new products; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in the semiconductor markets; the commencement of litigation; and general economic and market conditions. The lease for our sole facility will expire at the end of fiscal 2007. The lease for our executive offices, research facilities, and warehouse expires September 30, 2007. We believe we will be able to either renew the lease or to find and move to an alternate acceptable location by the end of fiscal 2007. However, should we not be able to renew the lease or find alternate space on favorable financial or other terms, or at all, our operations would be interrupted. Further, any move to new facilities would also interrupt operations for a short period. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We are not an accelerated filer as defined in SEC Rule 12b-2 so this Item is not applicable. 