Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Development of the Business We are an ISO 9001:2008 registered company that develops and markets high-performance, low power digital integrated circuits and integrated modules that perform high-density storage and signal/image processing functions. Our products enable video display, transport, editing, composition, special effects, and the high-performance, high-density storage of electronic information. We also provide solutions for digital filtering in television broadcast stations and image enhancement in medical diagnostic scanning and imaging equipment. Our products are used in video broadcasting, medical imaging, military, industrial, embedded, and telecommunications markets. Our products address memory, digital signal processing (DSP), and high-performance arithmetic computation. We focus on developing proprietary, silicon intellectual property and standard catalog products to address specific functional application needs and performance levels that are not otherwise commercially available. We seek to provide related groups of circuits that original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) incorporate into high-performance electronic systems. We rely on third-party silicon foundries to process silicon wafers, each wafer having up to several hundred integrated circuits of a given LOGIC design, from which finished products are then assembled. Our strategy is to avoid the substantial investment in capital equipment and expertise required to establish a wafer fabrication facility, by outsourcing wafer processing to third-party foundry specialists to take advantage of their expertise. See "Business – Background." We currently have one primary wafer supplier. We continue to explore additional foundry relationships to reduce our dependence on any single wafer foundry. We market our products worldwide via direct marketing and through an external sales management organization, which provides increased direct sales support and channel exposure through a combination of domestic sales representatives and international non-stocking distributors and/or agents. In fiscal 2011, approximately 33 percent of our net revenues were from international channels. We adjust our sales structure to address appropriate market requirements. We include the following as some of our customers: Texas Instruments, BAE Systems, Harmonic, GE Medical, Northrup Grumman, Qualcomm, and Raytheon. We incorporated under the laws of the State of California in April 1983. Our headquarters are located at 1375 Geneva Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94089, and our telephone number is 408-542-5400. Our fiscal year end is September 30. Our website is www.logicdevices.com. We do not intend for information on our website to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Background Continuing advances in fabricating semiconductors are driving a global revolution in electronics. With these ongoing advances, the ability to economically compute, communicate, and control seems to be limited only by the creativity required to implement ever more complex electronic systems. It is increasingly common to implement entire electronic systems on a single, small sliver of silicon. The challenges to the industry have increasingly turned toward innovative product definition, timely product development, technical customer support, and heavy capital investments in advanced semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities. The rapid advances in chip fabrication technology have resulted in a specialization of skills within the industry. In addition to the specialization of materials processing skills required to fabricate semiconductor wafers, the industry increasingly requires and values system architecture development, interoperability standards, signal processing algorithms, and circuit design expertise as essential skills for developing financially successful products. Many opportunities have thus emerged for semiconductor companies that focus on product definition, advanced design techniques, and technical application support, and that rely on third parties for wafer fabrication. We focus our resources on defining and developing high-performance integrated circuit components and integrated multi-chip modular products to growing markets, which require demanding computational throughput. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive, highly cyclical, and characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence, wide fluctuations in both demand and capacity, and steep price erosion. These factors can render processes and products currently utilized or produced by us obsolete. In such cases, we are required to develop products utilizing new processes and to either integrate such products into our existing foundry processes, or seek new foundry sources. Markets and Product Development Strategies We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenues from sales to video equipment manufacturers and to defense contractors providing systems that perform computationally intensive image processing. Our products were among the first to provide economical, high-speed, yet low power, computational solutions for common image manipulation and storage problems encountered in implementing these systems. Applications of our products also overlap into medical diagnostic imaging equipment, and digital cinema systems. We jointly define a family of digital image filtering circuits that address the filtering requirements of HDTV studio production systems with our customers. As a result of our work on high-speed, low power image processing circuits that are very computationally demanding, we have developed expertise in circuit design and implementation that is not readily available to many OEMs, and within the semiconductor industry, only available within some of the very largest companies that, due to their size, are compelled to pursue very large markets. Our capabilities and size provide opportunities to service technically-demanding industrial and military markets that are not serviced by those larger companies. In addition to, as well as a result of our work on high-performance, low power silicon developments for the markets, applications, and platforms we serve, we have introduced a product family enabling us to provide advanced, multi-chip, integrated modular products. This product family’s packaging medium facilitates the integration of our silicon intellectual property as well as silicon intellectual property from other semiconductor manufacturers, providing high-density, wide-word memory arrays, sub-systems, and systems in packages. The same advances in semiconductor technology that have enabled the advancements in high definition broadcast video production and distribution have driven a rapid increase in the ability to transmit vast amounts of data. Communications in all forms with increasing portability and bandwidth are proliferating worldwide. Much of this new communication capability will be utilized to transport video streams. We believe that many opportunities exist to utilize our capabilities in low power, high speed computation and storage to address the requirements of these communications and video systems. The convergence of communications and ubiquitous image processing is an opportunity that is well-suited to our capabilities and far exceeds our abilities to address completely. We seek to identify additional markets that: • require the application of our silicon design and multi-chip packaging expertise; • are stable, long-lived markets that are not extremely cost-sensitive; • offer potential for substantial revenue growth; and • are not served by larger competitors with substantially more resources. Currently, the semiconductor industry is challenged by several factors. First, the cost of developing high complexity products is escalating as fast, if not faster than, the capability of the technology itself is increasing. Second, the disciplines required to develop complex, systems-on-chips (SOCs) require a rapidly increasing breadth of technical skills. Consumer-related products are experiencing ever shrinking life cycles as new products are quickly supplanted by even newer products. Wafer Fabrication Technology We are a fabless semiconductor manufacturer. We rely upon third-party foundry suppliers to produce processed wafers from mask patterns that we design. Through these wafer suppliers, we have access to advanced high-speed, high-density complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) process technology, without the significant investment in capital equipment and facilities required to establish a wafer fabrication factory. Coupled with our structured custom design methodology and experience with high-speed circuit design, this CMOS technology has allowed us to produce products that offer high computational speeds, high reliability, high levels of circuit integration (complexity), and low power consumption. Currently, we are primarily dependent upon one wafer supplier and we do not have a guarantee of minimum supplies. Therefore, there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue to be on terms satisfactory to us. The inability to obtain adequate quantities of processed wafers could limit our revenues. As a result of this risk, we carry a large inventory of unassembled wafers that can be packaged into a variety of carrier styles in order to support customer requirements in the event of potential disruption or the loss of our supplier. Production, Assembly, and Test Our production operations consist of functional and parametric testing, hot and cold testing, final inspection, quality inspection, and shipment. As is customary in the industry, high-volume assembly subcontractors assemble our devices. Thereafter, the assembled devices are returned to us for final testing and shipment to customers. We continue to test materials and products at various stages in the manufacturing process, utilizing automated test equipment. We have historically maintained, and expect to continue to maintain, high levels of inventory of our products. For some product types, we must purchase our anticipated inventory needs for the life of the product (often ten or more years) in a short period of time. Our high inventory levels heighten the risk of inventory obsolescence and write-offs. Marketing, Sales, and Customers We market our products worldwide via our marketing and business development group as well as an external sales management organization, channeling our products into both domestic and international territories via manufacturers representatives and non-stocking distributor and/or agents. We concentrate our direct marketing efforts on high-performance segments of the broadcast, medical imaging, industrial, embedded telecommunications and consumer markets, in applications where high speed is critical. Among our OEM customers are Texas Instruments, BAE Systems, Harmonic, GE Medical, Northrup Grumman, Qualcomm, and Raytheon. Distributors purchase our products for resale, generally to a broad base of small- to medium-sized customers. As is customary in the industry, our distributors receive certain price protection and limited stock rotation rights. However, our distributors are discouraged from maintaining uncommitted stock and must place an order of equal or greater value if they do request a return. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, sales through distributors accounted for approximately 21% and 29% of net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2011, our distributor in Singapore generated 13% of net revenues. In addition, Customer A and Customer B comprised 24% and 18% of net revenues in fiscal 2011, respectively. In fiscal 2010, no distributors generated more than 10% of net revenues; however, Customer B comprised 22% of net revenues in fiscal 2010. In addition, two contract manufacturers for Texas Instruments, Customer C and Customer D, comprised 16% and 15% of net revenues in fiscal 2010, respectively. Our relationships with our distributors are not exclusive and they may also market products competitive with our products. We warrant our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of 12 months from the date of shipment. Warranty expenses to date have been nominal. International sales are conducted by sales representatives and distributors located throughout Europe and Asia. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, our export sales were approximately 33% and 26% of net revenues, respectively (see Note 7 in "Notes to Financial Statements" contained in Item 8). Our international sales are billed in United States dollars, and therefore, settlements are not directly subject to currency exchange fluctuations. However, changes in the relative value of the dollar may create pricing pressures for our products. Although our international sales are subject to certain export restrictions, including the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, we have not experienced any material difficulties resulting from these restrictions to date. Backlog As of December 2, 2011 and 2010, our backlog was approximately $64,800 and $185,900, respectively. This backlog includes all released purchase orders shippable within the following 12 months, including orders from distributors. Our backlog, although useful for scheduling production, does not represent actual sales and should not be used as a measure of future sales or revenues at any particular time. In accordance with accepted industry practice, all orders on the backlog that are not "last-time buys" of obsolete products are subject to cancellation without penalty at the option of the purchaser at any time prior to shipment. In addition, the backlog does not reflect changes in delivery schedules and price adjustments that may be passed on to distributors or credits for returned products. We produce catalog products that may be shipped from inventory within a short time after receipt of a purchase order. The business for our catalog products, like the businesses of fellow companies in the semiconductor industry, is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules rather than by purchase contracts. Our shipments are generally concentrated toward the end of each quarter, making it difficult to predict our revenues and results of operations for any fiscal period. For these reasons, our backlog as of any particular date is not representative of actual sales for any succeeding period and we believe that our backlog is not a good indicator of future revenues. Research and Development As we have not introduced new products over the past few years, we view new product development as the most important factor affecting revenue growth; therefore, we continue to prioritize our commitment to research and development. We, as a company, bear all research and development costs. In addition, we bolster our competitive position with the addition of our multi-chip packaged products, facilitating the integration of our silicon intellectual property with the silicon intellectual property of others to provide packaged solutions to our current and prospective customers. Research and development expenditures were 50% and 45% of net revenues in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. These percentages are affected by our declining revenues. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Statements of Operations," contained in Items 7 and 8, respectively. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change and rates of product obsolescence, price erosion, periodic shortage of materials, variations in manufacturing yields and efficiencies, and increasing foreign competition. The industry includes many major domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us. We face competition from other manufacturers of high-performance integrated circuits, many of which have advanced technological capabilities and internal wafer production capabilities. Our ability to compete in this rapidly evolving environment depends on elements both in and outside our control. These elements include our ability to develop new products in a timely manner, the cost effectiveness of our manufacturing, the acceptance of new products by customers, the speed at which customers incorporate our products into their systems, the continued access to advanced semiconductor foundries, the number and capabilities of our competitors, and general economic conditions. Patents and Copyrights Because of the rapidly changing technology in the semiconductor industry, we rely primarily upon our design know-how, rather than patents and copyrights, to develop and maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers, and customers, but there can be no assurance that those measures will be adequate to protect our interests. We are of the opinion that patent and maskwork protection is of less significance in our business than other factors, such as the experience and innovative skill of our personnel and the abilities of our management. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent technology similar to our technology, or copy or otherwise duplicate our products. We own five patents granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Since others have obtained patents covering various semiconductor designs and processes, certain of our present or future designs or processes may be claimed to infringe upon the patents of third parties. We have previously received, and may in the future receive, claims that one or more aspects or uses of our products infringe on patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. See Item 3 – “Legal Proceedings.” We do not believe that we infringe upon any known patents at this time. If any such infringements exist or arise in the future, we may be liable for damages and may, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, find it necessary or desirable to obtain licenses relating to one or more of our current or future products. Based on industry practice, we expect that any necessary licenses or rights under patents could be obtained on conditions that would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. There can be no assurance, however, that licenses could, in fact, be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that litigation would not occur. Our inability to obtain such licenses on economically reasonable terms or the occurrence of litigation could adversely affect us. Employees As of September 30, 2011, we had nine total employees, one of whom was a part-time employee. We have been careful to retain employees that are necessary in order to maintain our ongoing development efforts. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is an important factor in our continued success. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced any work stoppage. We believe our employee relations are good. Regulations Federal, state, and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the discharge of chemicals and gases in connection with the wafer manufacturing process. Since we rely on third party manufacturers and our activities do not involve utilization of hazardous substances generally associated with semiconductor processing, we do not incur costs associated with regulatory compliance. Further, we believe such regulations are unlikely to have a material effect on our business or operations. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. Risks Related to Our Business Our independent auditors have issued a report questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. This report may impair our ability to raise additional financing and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past and we will likely incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow could hamper our operations and prevent us from expanding our business. Reports of independent auditors questioning a company's ability to continue as a going concern are generally viewed unfavorably by analysts and investors. This report may make it difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing necessary to continue our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow are also likely to make our capital raising needs more acute while limiting our ability to raise additional financing on favorable terms. We are a small company with very limited resources compared to our current and potential competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively in our highly competitive industry. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and many of our direct and indirect competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, and sales resources. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our operating results could be harmed. The current level of competition is high and may increase as our market expands. We compete directly with companies that have developed similar products. We also compete indirectly with numerous semiconductor companies that offer products and solutions based on alternative technologies. These direct and indirect competitors are established multinational semiconductor companies, as well as emerging companies. In addition, we may experience additional competition from foreign companies in the future. We depend on a limited number of customers for a majority of our sales, making our financial results particularly susceptible to the loss of a key customer. If we are unable to maintain our current customers, then our financial results will be detrimentally affected. In fiscal 2011, our distributor in Singapore generated 13% of net revenues and our German distributor generated 12% of net revenues. In addition, Customer A and Customer B comprised 24% and 18% of net revenues in fiscal 2011, respectively. In fiscal 2010, no distributors generated more than 10% of net revenues; however, Customer B comprised 22% of net revenues in fiscal 2010. In addition, two contract manufacturers for Texas Instruments, Customer C and Customer D, comprised 16% and 15% of net revenues in fiscal 2010, respectively. We anticipate that the concentration of our sales among a limited number of customers will continue in the future. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from any of our customers. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of future purchase orders, if any, from these customers and, in particular: • the product requirements of these customers; • the financial and operational success of these customers; and • the success of these customers’ products that incorporate our products. Our dependence on a small number of customers increases the risks associated with the potential loss of customers resulting from business combinations or consolidations. If one of our customers was acquired or combined with another company, the resulting company could cancel purchase orders as part of the integration process. These customers could, therefore, cease purchasing our products with limited notice and with no penalty. The loss of any one of these significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would harm our results of operations. We depend on third parties to fabricate silicon wafers and to assemble and test our products, which exposes us to a risk of production disruption or uncontrolled price changes. We do not manufacture silicon wafers. We rely upon one primary wafer supplier, whom is the sole source for certain components of our products, and three assembly/test subcontractors. This supplier and the subcontractors do not have a contractual obligation or commitment to supply such wafers or services in the future. If the supplier or the subcontractors are unable or unwilling to supply wafers or services, our operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to find sufficient suppliers to provide such wafers or services at a reasonable price or at all if such disruptions occur. As a result of our reliance on third parties, we face significant risks, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; • longer lead times; • the potential lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess industry demand; • difficulties selecting and integrating new subcontractors; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; • potential increases in prices due to capacity shortages; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. If we fail to deliver our products on time or if the costs of our products increase, then our profitability and customer relationships could be harmed. Our international operations subject us to risks not present in solely domestic operations. Our primary silicon wafer supplier and three assembly/test subcontractors are located outside the United States. Financial difficulties, government actions or restrictions, prolonged work stoppages, or any other difficulties experienced by our supplier and/or subcontractors could harm our future operating results. We also have several overseas customers. Our export sales are affected by unique risks frequently associated with foreign economics, including: • governmental controls and trade restrictions; • export license requirements and restrictions on the export of technology; • changes in local economic conditions; • political instability; • changes in tax rates, tariffs, or freight rates; • interruptions in air traffic; and • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales offices. Significant changes in the economic climate in the foreign countries from which we derive our export sales could harm future operating results. The complex nature of semiconductors makes us highly susceptible to manufacturing problems and these problems could have a negative impact on future operating results. Making semiconductors is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Even minute imperfections in the materials used, difficulties in the wafer fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous chips on each wafer to be nonfunctional. We may experience problems in achieving an acceptable quality and yield rate in the manufacture of wafers. The interruption of wafer fabrication or the failure to achieve acceptable yields could harm future operating results. We may also experience manufacturing problems in our assembly and test operations, and in the introduction of new packaging materials. We depend on third parties to deliver our products. We rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to transport our products between manufacturing locations and to deliver products to our customers. Any transport or delivery problems because of their errors, or because of unforeseen interruptions, such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters and accidents, could harm future operating results. Earthquakes, other natural disasters, and power shortages may damage our business. Our California facility and several of our suppliers are located near earthquake faults that have experienced major earthquakes in the past. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster near our facility or a sustained loss of power at our facility, our operations could be harmed. Similarly, a major earthquake or other natural disaster near one or more of our suppliers could disrupt the operations of these suppliers, which could limit the supply of our products and harm our business. We maintain high levels of inventory that decrease our liquidity and substantially increase the risk of write-offs. We have historically maintained and expect to continue to maintain high levels of inventory of processed silicon wafers, packaging materials, and finished goods. For some product types, we must purchase all of our anticipated inventory needs for the life of the product in a short period of time. We commit capital to maintain these high inventory levels, which prevents us from using that capital for other purposes, such as research and development, and requires us to utilize more capital than might otherwise be required. Our high inventory levels also heighten the risk of inventory obsolescence and write-offs. Further, we may forecast demand incorrectly and produce insufficient inventory, resulting in supply shortages. We currently have limited access to capital and we must rely solely upon a limited line of credit, our existing cash reserves, and funds from existing operations to finance future operations. We rely upon our limited line of credit, cash reserves, and funds from existing operations to fund our Company. Our directors have also purchased common stock and our president has provided bridge loans to provide our Company with working capital. Additionally, we have entered into an equity line of credit with Dutchess Opportunity Fund, II, LP, but we have not yet drawn upon the equity line. If these resources should be insufficient, we would be forced to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financing. Since we do not presently have a sufficient credit line for all of our capital needs, we may attempt to obtain additional debt financing. This debt financing is not assured. The terms upon which we could secure such financing are unknown and may likely be unfavorable, which would affect our ability to fund operations. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell capital stock on favorable terms or at all and any such sales may adversely affect our existing shareholders by diluting their position. Our operating success depends upon our ability to develop new products and access new technologies. The semiconductor industry is a dynamic environment marked by rapid product obsolescence. Our future success depends on our ability to introduce new or improved products that meet critical customer needs, while achieving acceptable profit margins. If we fail to introduce these new products in a timely manner or these products fail to achieve market acceptance, operating results would be harmed. The introduction of new products in a dynamic market environment presents significant business challenges. Product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales, while the success of new products depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technology developments. Future revenue growth is dependent on market acceptance of new products and the continued market acceptance of existing products. The success of these products is dependent on a variety of specific technical factors, including: • successful product definition; • timely and efficient completion of product design; • timely design into customers' future products and maintenance of close working relationships with customers; • timely and efficient access to wafer manufacturing and assembly processes; and • product performance, quality and reliability. If, due to these or other factors, new products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results would be harmed. Furthermore, to develop new products and maintain the competitiveness of existing products, we need to migrate to more advanced wafer manufacturing processes that use larger wafer sizes and smaller geometries. The loss of key personnel or failure to hire and retain additional qualified personnel could impair our ability to develop and market our products. Our future success greatly depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. As a small company, we are particularly dependent on a relatively small group of employees. Competition for skilled technical and management employees is intense in the semiconductor industry. As a result, we may be unable to retain our existing key technical and management employees, or attract additional qualified personnel, which could harm operating results. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights, or the costs of protecting these rights, may harm our ability to compete. We own several patents but rely primarily on our design know-how and continued access to advanced wafer process technology to develop and maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and customers. However, competitors may develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology, or reverse engineer our products. Our inability to adequately protect these proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially causing us to lose a competitive advantage and leading to decreased revenue. We may not obtain an adequate remedy in the event our confidentiality agreements are breached or any remedy at all if our trade secrets are independently developed by others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing intellectual property laws afford only limited protection, especially under the laws of some foreign countries. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We could be harmed by litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights. As a general matter, the semiconductor and related industries are characterized by substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We have been and may again be accused in the future of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Furthermore, we may have certain indemnification obligations to customers with respect to the infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by our products. Infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers or end-users of our products resulting from infringement claims may be asserted in the future and such assertions, if proven to be true, may harm our business. Any litigation relating to the intellectual property rights of third parties, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, could be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of management and engineering personnel. In the event of any adverse ruling in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacturing, use and sale of infringing products, discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement. A license might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and our trading volume may continue to be relatively low. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the future, the market price of the common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • announcements or introductions of new products; • technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; • conditions in the semiconductor markets; • the commencement of litigation; and • general economic and market conditions. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. 