ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risks and uncertainties relating to our business should be read carefully and in connection with evaluating our business and prospects, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and oral statements made by our representatives from time to time. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our financial condition and business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and operating results would suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in those forward-looking statements. For additional information regarding forward-looking statements, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Certain Forward-Looking Statements.” Conditions in the housing market and economic conditions generally have affected and may continue to affect our operating performance. Our business is largely dependent on home improvement (including repair and remodeling) activity and new home construction in the United States and Canada. High unemployment, low consumer confidence, declining home prices and tightened credit markets have limited the ability of consumers to finance home improvements and may continue to affect investment in existing homes in the form of renovations and home improvements. The new home construction market has also undergone a downturn marked by declines in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of existing homes on the market and a reduction in the availability of financing for homebuyers. These industry conditions and general economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. As of January 1, 2011, we had approximately $788.0 million of indebtedness, and interest expense for the year ended January 1, 2011 was approximately $74.9 million. 10 Table of Contents Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facilities (the “ABL facilities”) and 9.125% Senior Secured Notes due 2017 (the “9.125% notes”) and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions; • our ability to refinance such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because the ABL facilities have a variable rate of interest; • our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; • we may be more vulnerable to the current economic downturn and adverse developments in our business; and • we may be unable to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in the ABL facilities, the 9.125% notes and other indebtedness, as applicable, some of which requires the obligor to maintain specified financial ratios and limits our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could result in bankruptcy. Our ability to access funding under the ABL facilities depends upon, among other things, the absence of a default under the ABL facilities, including any default arising from a failure to comply with the related covenants. If we are unable to comply with our covenants under the ABL facilities, our liquidity may be adversely affected. Our ability to meet expenses, to remain in compliance with our covenants under our debt instruments and to make future principal and interest payments in respect of our debt depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We are not able to control many of these factors. Given current industry and economic conditions, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including the 9.125% notes, and meet our other obligations. We may be able to incur more indebtedness, in which case the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness, would increase. The ABL facilities and the indenture relating to the 9.125% notes permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness. As of January 1, 2011, we would have been able to incur an additional $104.9 million of indebtedness under the ABL facilities. If we or our parent companies incur additional debt, the risks associated with this substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. The indenture for the 9.125% notes and the ABL facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The indenture for the 9.125% notes and the ABL facilities, as applicable, impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, among other things, limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to: • pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay junior debt and make certain investments; • incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • incur liens on assets; • merge or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • allow to exist certain restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us. 11 Table of Contents In addition, as discussed under Item 2. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Description of Our Outstanding Indebtedness,” if our borrowing availability under the ABL facilities is below specified levels, we will be subject to compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio. All of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Continued disruption in the financial markets could negatively affect us. Along with our customers and suppliers, we rely on stable and efficient financial markets. Availability of financing depends on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial and credit markets, government policies and economic conditions, all of which are beyond our control. The credit markets and the financial services industry have recently experienced significant disruptions, characterized by the bankruptcy and failure of several financial institutions and severe limitations on credit availability. A prolonged continuation of adverse economic conditions and disrupted financial markets could compromise the financial condition of our customers and suppliers. Customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable due to liquidity and financial performance issues or concerns affecting them or due to their inability to secure financing. Suppliers may modify, delay or cancel projects and reduce their levels of business with us. In addition, the weakened credit markets may also impact the ability of the end consumer to obtain any needed financing to purchase our products, resulting in a reduction in overall demand, and consequently negatively impact our sales levels. Furthermore, continued disruption in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance indebtedness when required. We have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, operating income is sensitive to changes in net sales. We operate with significant operating and financial leverage. Significant portions of our manufacturing, selling, general and administrative expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. In addition, a significant portion of our interest expense is fixed. There can be no assurance that we would be able to further reduce our fixed costs in response to a decline in net sales. As a result, a decline in our net sales could result in a higher percentage decline in our income from operations. Changes in raw material costs and the availability of raw materials and finished goods could adversely affect our profit margins. The principal raw materials used by us are vinyl resin, aluminum, steel, resin stabilizers and pigments, glass, window hardware and packaging materials, all of which have historically been subject to price changes. Raw material pricing on certain of our key commodities has fluctuated significantly over the past several years. In response, we have announced price increases over the past several years on certain of our product offerings to offset inflation in raw materials and continually monitor market conditions for price changes as warranted. Our ability to maintain gross margin levels on our products during periods of rising raw material costs depends on our ability to obtain selling price increases. Furthermore, the results of operations for individual quarters can and have been negatively impacted by a delay between the timing of raw material cost increases and price increases on our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the selling price increases already implemented or achieve any future price increases. Additionally, we rely on our suppliers for deliveries of raw materials and finished goods. If any of our suppliers were unable to deliver raw materials or finished goods to us for an extended period of time, we may not be able to procure the required raw materials or finished goods through other suppliers without incurring an adverse impact on our operations. Even if acceptable alternatives were found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us. Extended unavailability of necessary raw materials or finished goods could cause us to cease manufacturing or distributing one or more of our products for an extended period of time. The unavailability, further reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives could adversely affect demand for our products. In response to economic conditions and declines in the housing market, as well as public attention to energy consumption, the federal government and various state governments have initiated tax credits and other programs intended to promote home purchases and investment in energy-compliant home improvement products. There can be no assurance regarding the impact of such programs on the purchase of energy-compliant home improvement products. The federal first-time home buyer credit expired in April 2010 and certain federal tax credits for energy efficient windows were reduced significantly for 2011 from 2010 and 2009 levels. We cannot ensure that the housing markets will not decline further as these programs are eliminated or scaled back, and the elimination or reduction of these programs may reduce demand for our products. 12 Table of Contents Risks associated with our ability to continuously improve organizational productivity and supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our business, either in an environment of potentially declining market demand or one that is volatile or resurging. We need to continually evaluate our organizational productivity and supply chains and assess opportunities to reduce costs and assets. We must also enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions. Our success also depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote a consistently flexible and low cost supply chain that can respond to market pressures to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly to effectively meet demand. Failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations. Despite proactive efforts to control costs and improve production in our facilities, competition could still result in lower operating margins and profitability. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by inclement weather conditions, which could affect the timing of the demand for our products and cause reduced profit margins when such conditions exist. Because most of our building products are intended for exterior use, sales tend to be lower during periods of inclement weather. Weather conditions in the first quarter of each calendar year usually result in that quarter producing significantly less net sales and net cash flows from operations than in any other period of the year. Consequently, we have historically had small profits or losses in the first quarter and reduced profits from operations in the fourth quarter of each calendar year. To meet seasonal cash flow needs during the periods of reduced sales and net cash flows from operations, we have typically utilized our revolving credit facilities and repay such borrowings in periods of higher cash flow. We typically generate the majority of our cash flow in the third and fourth quarters. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could have an adverse effect on us. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive. We seek to distinguish ourselves from other suppliers of residential building products and to sustain our profitability through a business strategy focused on increasing sales at existing supply centers, selectively expanding our supply center network, increasing sales through independent specialty distributor customers, developing innovative new products, expanding sales of third-party manufactured products through our supply center network and driving operational excellence by reducing costs and increasing customer service levels. We believe that competition in the industry is based on price, product and service quality, customer service and product features. Sustained increases in competitive pressures could have an adverse effect on results of operations and negatively impact sales and margins. Consolidation of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Though larger customers can offer efficiencies and unique product opportunities, consolidation increases their size and importance to our business. These larger customers can make significant changes in their volume of purchases and seek price reductions. Consolidation could adversely affect our margins and profitability, particularly if we were to lose a significant customer. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, sales to our largest customer and its licensees represented approximately 14%, 13% and 11% of net sales, respectively. The loss of a substantial portion of sales to this customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and key employees. Their motivation, skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management and key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations. In particular, the departure of members of our senior management could cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, lead to employee morale problems and the loss of key employees or cause production disruptions. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets, which if impaired, could require us to incur significant charges. As of January 1, 2011, we have approximately $566.4 million of goodwill and $731.0 million of other intangible assets, net. The value of these assets is dependent, among other things, upon our future expected operating results. We are required to test for impairment of these assets annually or when factors indicating impairment are present, which could result in a write down of all or a significant portion of these assets. Any future write down of goodwill and other intangible assets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and on the results of operations for the period in which the impairment charge is incurred. 13 Table of Contents The future recognition of our deferred tax assets is uncertain, and assumptions used to determine the amount of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are subject to revision based on changes in tax laws and variances between future expected operating performance and actual results. Our inability to realize deferred tax assets may have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences related to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax credits. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on available evidence, including assumptions about future profitability. Our total valuation allowance of $29.5 million as of January 1, 2011 is based on the uncertainty of the future realization of deferred tax assets. This reflects our assessment that a portion of our deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate taxable income in the future sufficient to utilize them or we enter into one or more transactions that limit our ability to realize all of our deferred tax assets. The assumptions used to make this determination are subject to revision based on changes in tax laws or variances between our future expected operating performance and actual results. As a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance. If we determine that we would not be able to realize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets in the future, we would further reduce our deferred tax asset through a charge to earnings in the period in which the determination was made. Any such charge could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The Merger, including the related refinancing of our outstanding debt, created tax deductions of approximately $68.9 million, although no assurances can be made that such deductions will be sustained if audited. These tax deductions are expected to create refunds of approximately $3.2 million for previously paid U.S. federal income taxes with the remaining tax deductions carried forward to reduce future taxable income. We expect to record additional deferred tax assets related to these loss carryforwards, and we are currently evaluating whether and to what extent to record a valuation allowance with respect to any such deferred tax assets. We are subject to foreign exchange risk as a result of exposures to changes in currency exchange rates between the United States and Canada. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations between the Canadian dollar and U.S. dollar. We realize revenues from sales made through Gentek’s Canadian distribution centers in Canadian dollars. The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar has been at or near historic highs in recent years. In the event that the Canadian dollar weakens in comparison to the U.S. dollar, earnings generated from Canadian operations will translate into reduced earnings in our consolidated statement of operations reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, our Canadian subsidiary also records certain accounts receivable and accounts payable accounts, which are denominated in U.S. dollars. Foreign currency transactional gains and losses are realized upon settlement of these obligations. For more information, please see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk.” We are controlled by investment funds affiliated with Hellman & Friedman LLC, whose interests may be different than the interests of other holders of our securities. By reason of their majority ownership interest in Parent, which is our indirect parent company, H&F and its affiliates have the ability to designate a majority of the members of the Board of Directors. H&F and its affiliates are able to control actions to be taken by us, including amendments to our organizational documents and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets, distributions of our assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and any incurrence of liens on our assets. The interests of H&F and its affiliates may be materially different than the interests of our other stakeholders. For example, H&F and its affiliates may cause us to take actions or pursue strategies that could impact our ability to make payments under the indenture governing the 9.125% notes and the ABL facilities or that cause a change of control. In addition, to the extent permitted by the indenture governing the 9.125% notes and the ABL facilities, H&F and its affiliates may cause us to pay dividends rather than make capital expenditures or repay debt. We could face potential product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or distribute. We face a business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, but we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert management and other personnel for months or years regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or business prospects or ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due. 14 Table of Contents We may incur significant, unanticipated warranty claims. Consistent with industry practice, we provide to homeowners limited warranties on certain products. Warranties are provided for varying lengths of time, from the date of purchase up to and including lifetime. Warranties cover product failures such as seal failures for windows and fading and peeling for siding products, as well as manufacturing defects. Liabilities for future warranty costs are provided for annually based on management’s estimates of such future costs, which are based on historical trends and sales of products to which such costs relate. To the extent that our estimates are inaccurate and we do not have adequate warranty reserves, our liability for warranty payments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. These matters may include contract disputes, personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. Increasingly, home builders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. Our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. These claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the home builders and many of their subcontractors and suppliers, including us, requiring us to incur defense costs even when our products or services may not be the principal basis for the claims. Although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such matter. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. If any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On September 20, 2010, Associated Materials, LLC and its subsidiary, Gentek Building Products, Inc., were named as defendants in an action filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, captioned Eliason v. Gentek Building Prods., Inc. The initial complaint was filed by three individual plaintiffs on behalf of themselves and a putative nationwide class of owners of steel and aluminum siding products manufactured by Associated Materials and Gentek or their predecessors. The plaintiffs assert a breach of express and implied warranty, along with related causes of action, claiming that an unspecified defect in the siding causes paint to peel off the metal and that Associated Materials and Gentek have failed adequately to honor their warranty obligations to repair, replace or refinish the defective siding. Plaintiffs seek unspecified actual and punitive damages, restitution of monies paid to the defendants and an injunction against the claimed unlawful practices, together with attorneys’ fees, costs and interest. We have filed a motion to dismiss and plan to vigorously defend this action, on the merits and by opposing class certification. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our business and the trading prices of our securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As of January 1, 2011, our management concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting were effective. 15 Table of Contents As of January 2, 2010, our management determined that we did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of the income tax provision and the related balance sheet accounts. Our income tax accounting in 2009 had significant complexity due to multiple debt transactions during the year including the restructuring of debt at a direct parent company, the impact of repatriation of foreign earnings and the related foreign tax credit calculations and changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. Specifically, our controls over the processes and procedures related to the calculation and review of the annual tax provision were not adequate to ensure that the income tax provision was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, these control deficiencies could result in a misstatement of the income tax provision, the related balance sheet accounts and note disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, management concluded as a result of these control deficiencies that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of January 2, 2010. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We engaged an independent public accounting firm (which was not our auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP) effective the first quarter of 2010 to perform additional detail reviews of complex transactions, the income tax calculations and disclosures on a quarterly and annual basis and to advise us on matters beyond our in-house expertise. The accounting firm performed the reviews of the income tax calculations and disclosures for each of the three quarters ended October 2, 2010, the predecessor period ended October 12, 2010 and the successor period ended January 1, 2011. Testing related to the revised internal controls and procedures for the annual tax provision calculations and disclosure reviews was completed during the first quarter of 2011 for the year ended January 1, 2011, and the revised internal controls and procedures for the annual tax provision calculations were determined by us to be operating effectively. As a result, we concluded that as of January 1, 2011 we have remediated the control issues identified during the fourth quarter of 2009 related to the completeness and accuracy of the income tax provision and the related balance sheet accounts. We cannot assure that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses and cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, which may result in significant costs. Our operations are subject to various U.S. and Canadian environmental statutes and regulations, including those relating to: materials used in our products and operations; discharge of pollutants into the air, water and soil; treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Such laws and regulations may also impact the cost and availability of materials used in manufacturing our products. Our facilities are subject to investigations by governmental regulators, which occur from time to time. While our management does not currently expect the costs of compliance with environmental requirements to increase materially, future expenditures may increase as compliance standards and technology change. Also, we cannot be certain that we have identified all environmental matters giving rise to potential liability. Our past use of hazardous materials, releases of hazardous substances at or from currently or formerly owned or operated properties, newly discovered contamination at any of our current or formerly owned or operated properties or at off-site locations such as waste treatment or disposal facilities, more stringent future environmental requirements (or stricter enforcement of existing requirements) or our inability to enforce indemnification agreements could result in increased expenditures or liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Any final judgment in an environmental proceeding entered against us or our subsidiaries that is greater than $25.0 million (net of amounts covered by insurance policies) and remains unpaid, undischarged and unstayed for a period of more than 60 days after becoming final would be an event of default under the indenture governing the 9.125% notes and the ABL facilities. For further details regarding environmental matters giving rise to potential liability, see Item 1. “Business — Legal Proceedings.” Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming / climate change concerns may negatively impact our business. Recently, there has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an unspecified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the United States to combat climate change could result in future increases in taxes and the cost of raw materials, transportation and utilities for us and our suppliers, which would result in higher operating costs for us. However, our management is unable to predict at this time the potential effects, if any, that any future environmental initiatives may have on our business. 16 Table of Contents Additionally, the recent legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change could create financial risk. Many governing bodies have been considering various forms of legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions. Increased public awareness and concern may result in more laws and regulations requiring reductions in or mitigation of the emission of greenhouse gases. Our facilities may be subject to regulation under climate change policies introduced within the next few years. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation could increase our costs of compliance with environmental laws. If we are unable to recover all costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Declining returns in the investment portfolio of our defined benefit pension plans and changes in actuarial assumptions could increase the volatility in our pension expense and require us to increase cash contributions to the plans. We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees in the United States and Canada. Pension expense for the defined benefit pension plans sponsored by us is determined based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on assets and discount rates. The use of these assumptions makes our pension expense and cash contributions subject to year-to-year volatility. Declines in market conditions, changes in pension law and uncertainties regarding significant assumptions used in the actuarial valuations can have a material impact on future required contributions to our pension plans and could result in additional charges to equity and an increase in future pension expense and cash contributions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 