ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of factors, including those specified below, that may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know about or currently views as immaterial may also affect the Company’s business or adversely impact its financial results or stock price. Industry Risk Factors The Company’s business and financial results are subject to general business and economic conditions. The Company’s business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States. The recent economic downturn resulted in a deterioration of credit quality of certain lessees and reduced demand for financing capital assets. Continued weakness in the financial performance and condition of customers could negatively affect the repayment of their obligations. In addition, changes in securities markets and monetary fluctuations adversely affect the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet the Company’s liquidity needs. Changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce the Company’s net direct finance and interest income. The Company’s net direct finance and interest income, which is the difference between income earned on leases, loans and investments and interest expense paid on deposits, is affected by market rates of interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Disruptions in the domestic credit markets and interest rate environment, including changes in interest spreads and the yield curve, could reduce net interest income. Low prevailing interest rates have reduced the income earned on the Company’s available cash balances. Higher interest rates and the inability to access capital markets could negatively affect certain customers and result in increased lease and loan losses. Changes in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial services companies could alter the Company’s business environment and adversely affect operations. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part the Company’s cost of funds and the return that can be earned on leases, loans and investments, which affect the Company’s net direct finance, loan and interest income. The Company and the Bank are regulated by governmental entities. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. The 2010 Financial Reform Act provides for sweeping financial regulatory reform, the ultimate impact of which will depend on the final rules adopted and regulatory interpretation and rulemaking. These changes in regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Company cannot predict whether any additional legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could intensify and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and lease associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and investment companies, many of which have greater resources than the Company. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions. Company Risk Factors The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The Company’s subsidiaries retain approximately 90% of lease transactions and all loans in their own portfolios, which exposes the Company to credit risk. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses to provide for probable and estimatable losses in the portfolio. The Company’s allowance for credit losses is based on its historical experience as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with its portfolio, including the size and composition of the lease and loan portfolio, current economic conditions and concentrations within the portfolio. The allowance for credit losses m ay not be adequate to cover losses resulting from unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or the financial markets. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, or if the reserve for credit losses is not adequate, future provisions for credit losses could materially and adversely affect financial results. 11 California First National Bancorp and Subsidiaries The Company may suffer losses in its lease and loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its lease and loan portfolio by adhering to specific credit practices. Although the Company believes that its criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of leases and loans it makes, the Company may incur losses on leases and loans that meet these criteria. The Bank’s commercial loan initiative may increase the Company’s risk of losses. The commercial loan portfolio contains a number of commercial loans with relatively larger balances than its historical lease portfolio. The deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in an increase in the provision for credit losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Bank’s expanded lease purchase operations may increase the Company’s risk of losses. CalFirst Bank has implemented a program to grow its lease portfolio through the purchase of lease receivables on a non-recourse basis from other banks and finance companies. The Company seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in this third-part business by adhering to specific underwriting practices, but many of these relationships are new and untested, and the Bank could be exposed to risks not inherent with the lease transactions originated directly or acquired from its affiliates, including unfamiliar docu mentation and reliance on sales and funding professionals not subject to the Bank’s policies and practices. Customer concentration may increase the risk of loss in the event of the deterioration of one of these customers or industries. At June 30, 2010 approximately 33% of the Company’s net investment in capital leases was with public and private colleges, universities, elementary and secondary schools located throughout the United States and 11% was related to the oil and gas industry. One customer in the oil and gas industry accounted for 8% of the investment in capital leases and 6% of investment in leases and loans. The Company’s diversification into broader investment alternatives may increase the Company’s risk of losses. The Company’s investment portfolio may include U.S. Treasury and Agency Securities, corporate bonds and closed-end mutual funds, in addition to interest-earning deposits, short-term money market securities and federal funds previously held. These securities subject the Company to increased risk of volatility in the valuation of the investment, as well as greater interest and market risks. The deterioration of one or a few of these investments on a permanent basis could result in an determination that the investment has been permanently impaired and require a write-down of such investment, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may be adversely affected by significant changes in the bank deposit market and interest rates. CalFirst Bank has grown to represent 65% of the Company’s assets, and bank deposits now exceed $205 million. As a result, the Company’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates and demand for bank deposits has increased from historical levels. Time deposits due within one year of June 30, 2010 totaled $115 million. If these maturing deposits do not roll over, CalFirst Bank may be required to seek other sources of funds, including other time deposits and borrowings. Depending on market conditions, rates paid on deposits and borrowings may be higher than c urrently paid or no longer available. Although the Bank employs a funding strategy designed to correlate the repricing characteristics of assets with liabilities, the impact of interest rate movements and customer demand is not always consistent during different market cycles, and changes in the costs for deposits and yields on assets may not coincide. The change in residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. A portion of the Company’s leases is subject to the risk that the residual value of the property under lease will be less than the Company’s recorded value. Adverse changes in the residual value of leased assets can have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results. The risk of changes in the realized value of the leased assets compared to recorded residual values depends on many factors outside of the Company’s control. 12 California First National Bancorp and Subsidiaries The financial services business involves significant operational risks. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and failure of business continuation and disaster recovery plans. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Operating results may differ from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, including the volume and profitability of leased property being remarketed, the size and credit quality of the lease and loan portfolio, the interest rate environment, the volume of new lease and loan originations, including variations in the property mix and funding of such originations and economic conditions in general. The results of any quarter may not be indicative of results in the future. Negative publicity could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact its business and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s business from negative publicity, is inherent in the Company’s business. Negative publicity can result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including leasing practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. The Company’s reported financial results are subject to certain assumptions and estimates and management’s selection of accounting method. The Company’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Company’s financial condition and results. In some cases, management may select an accounting policy which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Company’s reporting different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the Company’s financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the estimate of residual values, the allowance for credit losses, and income taxes. For more information, refer to “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates”. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company’s financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Recently, FASB has proposed new accounting standards related to fair value accounting and accounting for leases that could materially change the Company’s financial statements in the future. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised stand ard retroactively, resulting in the Company’s restating prior period financial statements. Loss of certain key officers would adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company‘s business and operating results are substantially dependent on the certain key employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President of Credit, Chief Financial Officer, the President and Chief Credit Officer of the Bank and certain key sales managers. The loss of the services of these individuals, particularly the Chief Executive Officer, would have a negative impact on the business because of their expertise and years of industry experience. The Company’s business could suffer if the Company fails to attract and retain qualified people. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for personnel in most activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. 13 California First National Bancorp and Subsidiaries The Company relies on other companies to provide components of the Company’s business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide certain components of the Company’s business infrastructure, such as the Bank’s core processing and electronic banking systems, item processing, and Internet connections. While the Company has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties not providing the Company their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to the Company’s customers and otherwise to conduct i ts business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. A natural disaster could harm the Company’s business. Natural disasters could harm the Company’s operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of the Company’s websites, which would prevent the Company from gathering deposits, originating leases and loans and processing and controlling its flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and the Company’s operational, financial and management information systems. The Company faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including “hacking” and “identity theft.” The computer systems and network infrastructure the Company and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss or telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, our computer systems and netwo rk infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. The Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity needs. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from CalFirst Leasing and the Bank. The Company receives substantially all of its cash from dividends paid by CalFirst Leasing. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s stock. Various regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. The Company’s stock price can be volatile. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry, and changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, including terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s operating results. In addition, the volume of trading in the Company’s stock is very limited and can result in fluctuations in prices between trades. The Company is a “controlled company” as defined by NASDAQ, with over 64% of the stock held by the Chief Executive Officer, over 77% held by two senior executives and fewer than 100 shareholders of record. As a result, senior management has the ability to exercise significant influence over the Company’s policies and business, and determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. These actions may include, for example, the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to corporate documents, the approval of mergers, sales of assets and the continuation of the Company as a registered company with obligations to file periodic reports and other filings with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 California First National Bancorp and Subsidiaries 