ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in CTI’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below, which represent some of the more critical risk factors that affect us. These factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks that are not presently known may also result in such adverse effects. Risks Concerning CTI’s Efforts to Become Current in Its Periodic Reporting, Litigation and Related Matters CTI is and continues to be in violation of a final judgment and court order that mandated that it become current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws by February 8, 2010. After CTI becomes current in such periodic reporting obligations, it will also be in violation of such judgment and court order if, in the future, it does not file its periodic reports in a timely manner. Violations of the final judgment and court order may result in significant sanctions. CTI is not yet current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws. In June 2009, CTI entered into a civil settlement with the SEC over allegations regarding the improper backdating of stock options and other accounting practices, including the improper establishment, maintenance and release of reserves, the reclassification of certain expenses, and the calculation of backlog of sales orders. Without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC’s complaint, CTI consented to the issuance of a final judgment. The final judgment enjoins CTI from future violations of the federal securities laws and ordered it to be in compliance with its obligations to file periodic reports with the SEC by no later than February 8, 2010. CTI, however, was unable to file the requisite periodic reports by such date and has not yet become current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws. Consequently, CTI is and continues to be in violation of the final judgment and court order. In addition, if CTI becomes current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws in the future, but subsequently does not file its periodic reports in a timely manner, it will be in violation of the final judgment and court order. Violations of the final judgment and court order may subject CTI to significant sanctions, including fines and penalties against CTI or its officers and directors for violation of the court’s directive. As a result of CTI’s inability to become current in its periodic reporting obligations in accordance with the final judgment and court order by February 8, 2010, the SEC instituted an administrative proceeding pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act to suspend or revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock and the Administrative Law Judge in such proceeding issued an initial decision to revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock. Although the SEC has granted review of the Administrative Law Judge’s initial decision to revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock, the outcome of such review may be adverse to CTI, and may result in the revocation of the registration of CTI’s common stock. As a result of its inability to become current in its periodic reporting obligations in accordance with the final judgment and court order by February 8, 2010, CTI received a “Wells Notice” from the staff of the SEC on February 4, 2010. The “Wells Notice” provided notification that the staff of the SEC intended to recommend that the SEC institute an administrative proceeding against CTI to determine whether, pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act, the SEC should suspend or revoke the registration of each class of CTI’s securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. Under the process established by the SEC, recipients of a Wells Notice have the opportunity to make a Wells Submission before the 31 Table of Contents staff of the SEC makes a formal recommendation to the SEC regarding what action, if any, should be brought by the SEC. On February 25, 2010, CTI submitted a Wells Submission to the SEC in response to this Wells Notice. On March 23, 2010, the SEC issued an Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings (or OIP) pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act to suspend or revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock because CTI had not filed an Annual Report on Form 10-K since April 20, 2005 or a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q since December 12, 2005. On July 22, 2010, the Administrative Law Judge in the Section 12(j) administrative proceeding issued an initial decision to revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock. The initial decision does not become effective until the SEC issues a final order, which would indicate the date on which sanctions, if any, would take effect. On August 17, 2010, the SEC issued an order granting a petition by CTI for review of the Administrative Law Judge’s initial decision to revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock and setting forth a briefing schedule under which the final brief was filed on November 1, 2010. This matter, including a motion by CTI for oral arguments, is pending before the SEC. After the SEC issues its final order, either party may appeal such order to the federal court of appeals. Although the SEC has granted review of the Administrative Law Judge’s initial decision to revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock, CTI cannot at this time predict the outcome of such review or any appeal therefrom. If the registration of CTI’s common stock is ultimately revoked, CTI intends to complete the necessary financial statements, file an appropriate registration statement with the SEC and seek to have it declared effective in order to resume the registration of such common stock under the Exchange Act as soon as practicable. Although CTI continues to make progress towards completion of its periodic reports and intends to vigorously defend against the possible suspension or revocation of the registration of its common stock, if a final order is issued by the SEC to suspend or revoke the registration of CTI’s common stock, brokers, dealers and other market participants would be prohibited from buying, selling, making market in, publishing quotations of or otherwise effecting transactions with respect to such common stock until, in the case of suspension, the lifting of such suspension, or, in the case of a revocation, CTI files a new registration statement with the SEC under the Exchange Act and that registration statement is declared effective. As a result, public trading of CTI’s common stock would cease and investors would find it extraordinarily difficult to acquire or dispose of CTI’s common stock or obtain accurate quotations of CTI’s common stock, which could result in a significant decline in the value of CTI’s stock. In addition, CTI’s business may be adversely impacted, including, without limitation, an adverse impact on CTI’s ability to issue stock to raise equity capital, engage in business combinations or provide employee incentives. CTI faces challenges in producing accurate financial statements and periodic reports as required on a timely basis. Changes to organization and processes As a result of the circumstances giving rise to the Special Committee investigations, management’s evaluation of the application of U.S. GAAP in connection with recognition of revenue, including the assessment of VSOE of fair value, and the Audit Committee’s internal investigation of alleged improper payments, CTI has made changes to its finance organization, adopted new accounting policies, and enhanced many aspects of its revenue recognition and other accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting. CTI, however, is still in the process of assimilating these complex and pervasive changes, continues to have material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and, as a result, cannot assure you that CTI will not experience additional delays with respect to the preparation of its financial statements and its periodic reports in the future. In addition, CTI has engaged outside accounting consulting firms and other external consultants to assist its finance organization in completing the preparation of its financial statements, and preparing this Annual Report and other periodic reports. CTI has hired and intends to continue to hire experienced 32 Table of Contents finance personnel with a view toward diminishing and then discontinuing the use of external consultants to assist in the preparation of financial statements and the timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC. Replacing these consultants with new employees may result in the loss of important institutional knowledge or otherwise create transitional issues that could delay the preparation of financial statements and periodic reports. Potential for future errors in the application of accounting rules and pronouncements. The completion of the audits of our financial statements involved significant review and analyses, including highly technical analyses of contracts and business practices, equity-based compensation instruments, tax accounting, and the proper application of the applicable revenue recognition accounting guidance. Given the complexity and scope of this process, and despite the extensive time, effort and expense that went into it, additional accounting errors may in the future come to light in these or other areas that may result in future restatements. Potential inability to adapt to new interpretations of applicable accounting rules and pronouncements. The relevant accounting rules and pronouncements that were the focus of the preparation and audit of our financial statements are subject to ongoing interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or the FASB), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. In addition, the accounting profession continues to assess these accounting rules and pronouncements with the objective of providing additional guidance on potential interpretations. In September 2009, the FASB issued guidance that will have a material impact on our revenue recognition policies. Beginning February 1, 2011, changes in the interpretations of these rules and pronouncements could lead to unanticipated changes in our current accounting practices, and CTI or its subsidiaries may be unable to timely adapt to these changes, which may result in errors in our consolidated financial statements or delays in the filing of periodic reports containing such financial statements. CTI’s dependence upon Verint and Starhome to provide CTI with necessary financial information in a timely manner. Verint Systems, CTI’s consolidated majority-owned subsidiary, faced significant challenges, similar to CTI’s, in producing accurate financial statements and periodic reports as required on a timely basis. In addition, Verint Systems identified material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting which could adversely affect its ability to report its financial results, accurately, timely or both. The financial results of Verint and Starhome are included in our consolidated financial statements and periodic reports. If either Verint Systems or Starhome is unable to provide CTI with the necessary accurate financial information in a timely manner, CTI will be unable to file its periodic reports when due. CTI’s management has concluded that, as of January 31, 2010, CTI’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective resulting in CTI’s inability to timely file its periodic reports under the federal securities laws due to material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. CTI’s management concluded that, as of January 31, 2010, its disclosure controls and procedures were not effective resulting in CTI’s inability to file its periodic reports under the federal securities laws in a timely manner due to material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting that were discovered as a result of facts and circumstances surrounding the Special Committee investigations and management’s revenue recognition evaluation. 33 Table of Contents CTI has adopted, and is in the process of implementing, certain remedial measures to address these material weaknesses. CTI may not be able to successfully complete the implementation of these remedial measures. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” In addition, even if these measures are successfully implemented, the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures is subject to limitations, including the exercise of judgment in designing, implementing and evaluating the controls and procedures, the assumptions used in identifying the likelihood of future events and the inability to eliminate misconduct completely. Moreover, additional material weaknesses in CTI’s internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. Consequently, CTI’s disclosure controls and procedures may not have detected and may not in the future detect all material errors or fraud. Failure to detect any material errors or fraud in a timely manner may require CTI to amend previously filed periodic reports and may materially adversely affect CTI and its ability to file periodic reports in a timely manner. In addition, the inadequacy of CTI’s internal controls creates an environment that hinders the ability to prepare tax returns in a timely manner and may impact the amounts that we may owe taxing jurisdictions in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. We may be subject to material penalties and interest as a result of audits from these taxing jurisdictions. The SEC and the DOJ may pursue civil and/or criminal actions against CTI relating to certain alleged improper payments made by certain Comverse employees and sales agents in foreign jurisdictions in connection with the sale of certain products, which could subject it to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and other sanctions. On March 16, 2009, CTI disclosed that the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors was conducting an internal investigation of alleged improper payments made from 2001 through 2007 by certain Comverse employees and external sales agents in foreign jurisdictions in connection with the sale of certain products. Such alleged payments would have been made in contravention of stated policies, and certain of these payments may have been in violation of the FCPA or other laws of the United States or other countries. The Audit Committee found that the conduct at issue did not involve CTI’s current executive officers. When the Audit Committee commenced the investigation, CTI voluntarily disclosed to the SEC and the DOJ these facts and advised that the Audit Committee had initiated an internal investigation and that the Audit Committee would provide the results of its investigation to the agencies. On April 27, 2009, the SEC advised CTI that it was investigating the matter and issued a subpoena to CTI in connection with its investigation. The Audit Committee provided information to, and is cooperating fully with, the SEC and the DOJ with respect to its findings of the internal investigation of the alleged improper payments and the existing and prior arrangements with agents. In connection therewith, the SEC and the DOJ may pursue civil and/or criminal actions against CTI that could subject it to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Efforts by CTI to become current in its periodic reporting obligations have required diversion of its management’s attention from business operations, led to concerns on the part of customers, partners, investors and employees about the financial condition of CTI and Comverse and potential loss of business opportunities and resulted in the incurrence of substantial expenses. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, CTI’s management, including its finance and accounting staffs, has devoted and continues to devote substantial time, effort and resources to its efforts to become current in its periodic reporting obligations, in addition to performing their day-to-day duties. These efforts and the exigent circumstances have diverted and may continue to divert, management’s attention away from our business. In addition, the delay in the completion of CTI’s periodic reports and the financial condition of CTI and Comverse have caused significant concerns on the part of customers, partners, investors and employees and may have resulted in the loss of potential business opportunities. 34 Table of Contents In addition, to assist their respective finance and accounting teams, CTI engaged outside accounting consulting firms and other external consultants to assist in the preparation of financial statements and periodic reports and has incurred and continues to incur substantial expenses for their services, in addition to incurring substantial expenses for external legal, tax and other professional services. The staff of the SEC may review the periodic reports of CTI or Verint Systems and may request amendments of financial information or other disclosures. Following its review of periodic reports (including, but not limited to, this Annual Report) filed with the SEC, the staff of the SEC may request that CTI or Verint Systems make additional changes to their reporting of financial information contained in such periodic reports, potentially requiring amendments to their financial information or other disclosure. Because CTI consolidates Verint’s financial results with its consolidated financial statements, changes in the reporting of Verint’s financial information could require CTI to amend its consolidated financial information or other disclosure. Any further amendments to the consolidated financial information of CTI or Verint, among other things: • would distract management’s attention from our business and operations; • may require CTI or Verint Systems, as applicable, to suspend the exercise of options by employees until it becomes current again in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws; • would result in incurring substantial additional professional expenses; • may adversely affect CTI’s or Verint Systems’ reputation, credibility with customers and investors and their ability to raise capital in the capital markets; and • may subject CTI or Verint Systems, as applicable, to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory investigations and actions, including violating a final judgment and court order enjoining future violations of the federal securities laws. If CTI ceases to maintain a majority ownership of Verint Systems’ outstanding equity securities, it may be required to no longer consolidate Verint’s financial statements within its consolidated financial statements. In such event, the presentation of CTI’s consolidated financial statements would be materially different from the presentation for the fiscal years covered by this Annual Report. CTI currently owns a majority of Verint Systems’ outstanding shares of capital stock. Due to its majority ownership, CTI currently designates a majority of the directors serving on Verint Systems’ board of directors as permitted by NASDAQ rules that exempt “a controlled company,” such as Verint Systems, from a requirement that it maintain a board of directors comprised of a majority of independent directors. There can be no assurance that CTI will maintain its majority ownership or the majority voting power of Verint Systems. On January 14, 2011, CTI completed the sale of 2.3 million shares of Verint Systems common stock in a secondary public offering. In addition, CTI may elect to sell a portion of its shares of Verint Systems’ common stock or preferred stock to execute its business strategy. If CTI ceases to own more than 50% of the voting power for the election of Verint Systems’ directors, Verint Systems could no longer rely on the “controlled company” exemption and would be required to meet NASDAQ’s rules mandating that a majority of its board of directors be comprised of independent directors. As a result, CTI may be required to no longer consolidate Verint’s financial statements within its consolidated financial statements. In such event, the presentation of CTI’s consolidated financial statements would be materially different from the presentation for the fiscal years covered by this Annual Report. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Businesses and our Industries Comverse and CTI are exposed to liquidity risk. Our current ability to meet our obligations and fund our capital requirements is dependent primarily on our future financial performance, cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, amounts available for borrowing under existing lines of credit, and sale of investments and certain assets. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 and the nine months ended October 31, 2010, our Comverse segment experienced operating losses and significant negative cash flows from operations. In addition, we continued to make significant cash disbursements, including repayment of indebtedness, payment of professional fees in connection with CTI’s efforts to become current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and, to a lesser extent, to remediate material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, payment of certain amounts due in respect of the settlements of a consolidated shareholder class action and shareholder derivative actions and restructuring and other payments, including a workforce reduction at Comverse. In addition, due to CTI’s inability to provide current audited financial statements, access to external sources of liquidity have been severely constrained and certain third party financial arrangements, including the placement of bank guarantees and other credit-related instruments, have required Comverse to post collateral in respect of a portion of or all amounts subject to such arrangements, typically in cash. Comverse’s ability to access such cash balances is typically restricted for the duration of the underlying arrangements. Certain other commercial arrangements, including property leases, require compensating cash balances as security, but these arrangements are not considered to be material. Prior to the completion of the sale by CTI of shares of Verint Systems’ common stock in a secondary public offering, our management had forecasted a shortfall of approximately $25.0 to $50.0 million in the cash required to support the working capital needs of the business of CTI and Comverse during the fiscal quarter ending October 31, 2011. To address the potential shortfall, CTI completed on January 14, 2011 the sale of 2.3 million shares of Verint Systems’ common stock owned by CTI in a secondary public offering for aggregate net proceeds of $76.5 million. As a result, we currently forecast that available cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet the liquidity needs of CTI and Comverse through the fiscal year ending January 31, 2012. The assumptions upon which management’s liquidity forecast is based are described more fully in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources–Recent Developments–Financial Condition of CTI and Comverse.” Management believes that its assumptions are reasonable. However, should one or more of the assumptions prove incorrect, or should one or more of the risks or uncertainties described in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors” materialize, CTI and Comverse may experience a shortfall in the cash required to support working capital needs. We believe that the Comverse segment will continue to experience negative cash flows from operations in the near term, and we cannot assure you that CTI or Comverse will be able to sell investments and assets or that future borrowings will be available to either CTI or Comverse on favorable terms or at all to meet CTI’s and the Comverse segment’s liquidity needs. If the initiatives to increase our liquidity and capital resources fail to satisfy CTI’s and the Comverse segment’s working capital needs, Comverse’s business and operations could be materially adversely affected and we may need to seek new borrowings, asset sales or issuance of equity securities on disadvantageous terms. 36 Table of Contents In addition, the ability of CTI’s subsidiaries to pay dividends is limited. In May 2007, Verint entered into a credit agreement relating to a credit facility consisting of a term loan and a revolving credit facility in order to fund a portion of the purchase price of its acquisition of Witness. The credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on Verint Systems’ ability to pay cash dividends and effect distributions to its stockholders, including CTI. In addition, the ability of CTI’s Israeli subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to limitations under Israeli law and dividends paid, or loans extended, by Israeli subsidiaries are subject to taxes. For a more detailed discussion, see “—Risks Related to Operations in Israel—The ability of CTI’s Israeli subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to limitations under Israeli law and dividends paid and loans extended by Israeli subsidiaries may be subject to taxes.” Also, as part of the settlement agreement of the consolidated shareholder class action, as amended, CTI granted a security interest for the benefit of the plaintiff class in the account in which CTI holds its ARS (other than the ARS that were held in an account with UBS) and the proceeds from any sales thereof, restricting CTI’s ability to use proceeds from sales of such ARS until the amounts payable under the settlement agreement are paid in full. In addition, under the terms of the settlement agreement of the consolidated shareholder class action, if CTI receives net cash proceeds from the sale of certain ARS held by it in an aggregate amount in excess of $50.0 million, CTI is required to use $50.0 million of such proceeds to prepay the settlement amounts under the settlement agreement and, if CTI receives net cash proceeds from the sale of such ARS in an aggregate amount in excess of $100.0 million, CTI is required to use an additional $50.0 million of such proceeds to prepay the settlement amounts under the settlement agreement. As of October 31, 2010, CTI had $31.3 million of restricted cash received from sales or redemptions of ARS and $94.6 million aggregate principal amount of ARS with a recorded value of $69.6 million to which these provisions of the settlement agreement apply. As a result of the weakness in the global economy, information technology spending has been reduced, including for our subsidiaries’ products and services. As a global company with a presence in many countries throughout the world, our sales and profitability are impacted by general economic conditions, both in the United States and internationally. The weakness in the global economy has been marked by, among other adverse factors, lower levels of consumer and corporate confidence, decreased business investment and consumer spending, increased unemployment, reduced income and asset values in many areas, currency volatility and more limited availability of credit and access to capital. Primarily through Comverse, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from communication service providers. As a result of the weakness in the global economy, many of Comverse’s customers experienced significant declines in revenues and profitability and some customers were required to reduce excessive debt levels. In response to these challenges, many of Comverse’s customers have implemented cost cutting measures, including more closely managing their operating expenses and capital investment budgets. This resulted and may continue to result in reduced demand for Comverse’s products, services and solutions, longer customer purchasing decisions and pricing pressures that can adversely affect our revenue and profitability. More specifically, such adverse market conditions have had and could continue to have a negative impact on Comverse’s business by reducing the number of contracts it is able to sign with new customers and the size of initial spending commitments, as well as decreasing the level of discretionary spending under contracts with existing customers. In addition, a slowdown in buying decisions of communication service providers may affect Comverse’s business by increasing the risks of credit or business failures of suppliers, customers or distributors, by customer requirements for extended payment terms, by delays and defaults in customer or distributor payments, and by price reductions instituted by competitors to retain or acquire market share. In addition, declines in information technology spending have affected the market for Verint’s products, especially in industries that are or have experienced significant cost cutting, such as financial services. The weakness in credit and capital markets has also had an adverse impact on customers’ ability to raise capital, which may impact their willingness to purchase our subsidiaries’ products, services and solutions or their ability to satisfy their current contractual obligations with our subsidiaries. This, in turn, may also decrease demand for our subsidiaries’ products, services and solutions or may result in requests for extended payment terms, credit losses or failures. Accordingly, the weakness in the global economy affecting current and potential customers has had and will likely continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flows. The failure of CTI to be current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and the continuing negative effects of the weakness in the global economy may materially and adversely affect CTI’s ability to obtain new debt or equity financing or engage in business combinations. 37 Table of Contents The failure of CTI to be current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws limits its access to the capital markets and limits its ability to engage in business combinations. In addition, the continuing negative effects of the weakness in the global economy have resulted in, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit and increased volatility in the capital markets. These factors impact CTI’s ability to obtain additional debt financing, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to raise additional capital. If CTI fails to obtain suitable financing or raise capital, when needed, or is unable to engage in business combinations, CTI’s ability to expand the businesses of its subsidiaries and meet competitive challenges may be materially and adversely affected. Conditions in the telecommunications industry have harmed and may continue to harm Comverse’s business, including its revenues, profitability and cash flows. Comverse has experienced certain adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry, including the emergence of new, lower-cost competitors from emerging markets, the proliferation of alternative messaging applications, the maturation of wireless services, the commoditization of some voice and SMS text message services, the increased dependence for growth on emerging markets with a lower average revenue per user and changes in the regulatory environment at times. These conditions have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Our subsidiaries’ operate in industries characterized by rapidly changing technology, and our success depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to enhance their existing products and develop and market new products. The software and high technology industry is subject to rapid change. The introduction of new technologies and new alternatives for the delivery of services are having, and can be expected to continue to have, a profound effect on competitive conditions in the market and the success of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries have executed strategies to capitalize on growth opportunities in new and emerging products and technologies to offset such pressures. While certain of these new products and technologies have proven to initially be successful, it is unclear whether they will be widely adopted by our subsidiaries’ customers and potential customers. Any increases in revenue from these new products and technologies may not, however, exceed any declines in revenue our subsidiaries may experience from the sale of traditional products and technologies and our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. Our success depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to correctly anticipate technological trends, to react quickly and effectively to such trends and to enhance their existing products accordingly. Our success also depends, in part, on the development and introduction by our subsidiaries of new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, the acceptance of these new products by customers and consumers, and the corresponding risks associated with the development, marketing and adoption of these new products. As a result, the life cycle of our subsidiaries’ products is difficult to estimate. New product offerings may not enter the market in a timely manner for their acceptance or may not properly integrate into existing platforms. The failure of new product offerings to be accepted by the market could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected in the event that our subsidiaries’ customers reduce their actual and planned expenditures to expand or replace equipment or if they delay and reduce the deployment of new products. Changing industry and market conditions may dictate strategic decisions to restructure some business units and discontinue others. Discontinuing a business unit or a product line may require us to record accrued liabilities for restructuring charges. These strategic decisions could result in changes to determinations regarding a product’s useful life and the recoverability of the carrying basis of certain assets. 38 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries must often establish and demonstrate the benefits of new and innovative products to customers. Many of our subsidiaries’ new and innovative products are complex. In many cases, it is necessary for our subsidiaries to educate existing and potential customers about the benefits and value of such new and innovative products, with no assurance that the customer will ultimately purchase them. The need to educate the customer increases the difficulty and time necessary to complete transactions, makes it more difficult to efficiently deploy limited resources, and creates risk that they will have invested in an opportunity that ultimately does not come to fruition. If our subsidiaries are unable to establish and demonstrate to customers the benefits and value of their new and innovative products and convert these efforts into sales, our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flows, will be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries are exposed to risks associated with the sale of large systems and large installations. Our subsidiaries have historically derived a significant portion of their sales and operating profit from contracts for large system installations with major customers. Our subsidiaries continue to emphasize large capacity systems in our product development and marketing strategies. Contracts for large installations typically involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process, and their ability to obtain particular contracts is inherently difficult to predict. The timing and scope of these opportunities and the pricing and margins associated with any eventual contract award are difficult to forecast, and may vary substantially from transaction to transaction. As a result, our future operating results may accordingly exhibit a high degree of volatility and may vary significantly from period to period. The degree of our subsidiaries’ dependence on large system orders, and the investment required to enable them to perform such orders, without assurance of continuing order flow from the same customers, increases the risk associated with their business. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries’ professional services employees do not provide installation services effectively and efficiently, their customers may not use their installation services or may stop using their software. This could adversely impact our revenue and harm our reputation. Because a significant proportion of our subsidiaries’ sales of these large system installations occur in the late stages of a quarter, a delay, cancellation or other factor resulting in the postponement or cancellation of such sales may cause us to miss our financial projections, which may not be discernable until the end of a financial reporting period. Operating results are difficult to predict as a result of lengthy and variable sales cycles, focus on large customers and installations, short delivery windows required by customers, and high percentage of revenues typically generated late in the fiscal quarter. It is difficult for us to forecast the timing of revenues from product sales because our subsidiaries’ customers often need a significant amount of time to evaluate products before purchasing them and, in the case of governmental customers, sales are dependent on budgetary and other bureaucratic processes. The period between initial customer contact and a purchase by a customer may vary from a few months to more than a year. During the evaluation period, customers may defer or scale down proposed orders of products for various reasons, including: • changes in budgets and purchasing priorities; • reduced need to upgrade existing systems; • deferrals in anticipation of enhancements or new products; • introduction of products by competitors; and • lower prices offered by competitors. 39 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries’ realization of anticipated gross margins on transactions is subject to risks and uncertainties. Our subsidiaries submit bids to their customers based on information known to them at the time of bid submission. Therefore, anticipated gross margins may be adversely affected by events occurring after a bid is submitted that effect our subsidiaries’ pricing and cost structure, including increases in material and labor costs, product obsolescence, price competition, changes in distribution channels and mix of products sold or adverse currency fluctuations. Our subsidiaries have many significant customers and frequently receive multi-million dollar orders. The deferral or loss of one or more significant orders or customers or a delay in an expected implementation of such an order could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in any fiscal period, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred, lost or delayed sales. A high percentage of our subsidiaries’ revenues has typically been generated late in the fiscal quarter. This trend has been amplified with Verint’s acquisition of Witness’ business, which historically has had a greater percentage of its business generated late in the fiscal quarter. In addition, a high percentage of our subsidiaries’ quarterly revenues has been generated in the form of “book-ship” business, where the customer places an order close to, or even on the day of, the requested delivery date. The trend of shorter periods between order date and delivery date, along with this trend of business generated late in the fiscal quarter, has further complicated the process of accurately predicting our revenues or making sales forecasts on a quarterly basis. Our subsidiaries base their current and future expense levels on internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and operating costs are, to a large extent, fixed. As a result, our subsidiaries may not be able to sufficiently reduce their operating costs in any period to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues. Our subsidiaries may incur significant costs to correct undetected defects, errors or operational problems in their complex products. Our subsidiaries’ products are complex and involve sophisticated technology that performs critical functions to highly demanding standards. Our subsidiaries’ existing and future products may develop operational problems and they may incur fees and penalties in connection with such problems. In addition, when our subsidiaries introduce products to the market or as they release new versions of existing products, the products may contain undetected defects or errors. Our subsidiaries may not discover such defects, errors or other operational problems until after products have been released and used by the customer. Our subsidiaries may incur significant costs to correct undetected defects, errors or operational problems in our products, including product liability claims. In addition, defects or errors in products also may result in questions regarding the integrity of the products, which could cause adverse publicity and impair their market acceptance, resulting in lost future sales. If our subsidiaries’ products fail to function as promised, we may be subject to claims for substantial damages. Courts may not enforce provisions in contracts that would limit our subsidiaries’ liabilities or otherwise protect them from liability for damages. Although our subsidiaries’ maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover claims against them. In addition, our subsidiaries’ insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If claims exceeding the available insurance coverage are successfully asserted against our subsidiaries, or their insurers impose premium increases, large deductibles or co-insurance requirements, our subsidiaries’ business, including their cash position and profitability, could be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries depend on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for certain components and are exposed to the risk that these suppliers and manufacturers will not be able to fill their orders on a timely basis and at the specifications our subsidiaries require. Our subsidiaries rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for specific components and third-party software and may not be able to find alternate manufacturers or third-party software providers that meet their requirements. Existing or alternative sources may not be available on favorable terms and conditions. Thus, if there is a shortage of supply for these components or third-party software, our subsidiaries may experience an interruption in their product supply. These risks may increase because of the current financial downturn and our suppliers’ limited ability to raise capital. Increased competition could force our subsidiaries to lower their prices or take other actions to differentiate their products and changes in the competitive environment in the telecommunications industry worldwide could seriously affect Comverse’s business. Our subsidiaries’ competitors may be able to develop more quickly or adapt faster to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Some of our subsidiaries’ competitors have, in relation to our subsidiaries, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer standing relationships with customers, greater name recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service, public relations, distribution and other resources. In addition, new competitors, many of which are in emerging markets, such as China, continue to emerge and there continues to be consolidation among existing competitors, which may create pricing pressure and reduce our subsidiaries’ market shares. In addition, some of our subsidiaries’ customers may in the future decide to develop internally their own solutions instead of purchasing them from our subsidiaries. Increased competition could force our subsidiaries to lower their prices or take other actions to differentiate their products. In addition, the telecommunications industry in which Comverse operates continues to undergo significant changes as a result of deregulation and privatization worldwide, reduced restrictions on competition in the industry and rapid and evolving technologies. The worldwide enhanced services industry is already highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify. In addition, as Comverse enters new markets as a result of its own research and development efforts, acquisitions or changes in subscriber preferences, such as the proliferation of alternative messaging applications, in part, as an attractive substitute for voicemail usage, it is likely to encounter new competitors. Moreover, Comverse faces indirect competition from changing and evolving technology, which provides alternatives to its products and services. For example, the introduction of open access to web-based applications from wireless devices allows end users to utilize web-based services, such as Facebook, Google, Yahoo or Hotmail, to access, among other things, instant messaging and electronic mail free of charge rather than using wireless carriers’ service offerings. This may reduce demand and the price of Comverse’s products and services, such as voicemail and SMS text messaging. Comverse’s compliance with telecommunications regulations and standards may be time consuming, difficult and costly. In order to maintain market acceptance, Comverse’s products must continue to meet a significant number of regulations and standards. In the United States, its products must comply with various regulations defined by the Federal Communications Commission (or the FCC) and Underwriters Laboratories, as well as standards developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (or the IETF), the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (or the 3GPP) and other standards committees. Internationally, Comverse’s products must comply with standards established by telecommunications authorities in 41 Table of Contents various countries as well as with recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union (or the ITU). As these standards evolve and if new standards are implemented, Comverse will be required to modify its products or develop and support new versions of its products, and this may negatively affect the sales of its products and increase its costs. The failure of Comverse’s products to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry standards could prevent or delay introduction of Comverse’s products, which could harm its business. Government regulatory policies are likely to continue to have an impact on the pricing of existing as well as new public network services and, therefore, are expected to affect demand for such services and the communications products, including Comverse’s products, which support these services. Tariff rates, the rates charged by service providers to their customers, whether determined by service providers or in response to regulatory directives, may affect the cost effectiveness of deploying and promoting certain public network services. Tariff policies are under continuous review and are subject to change. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or the application of tariff requirements to additional services could adversely affect the sales of Comverse’s products to certain customers. There may be future changes in U.S. and international telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network infrastructure and materially adversely affect Comverse’s business. User uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect demand for communications products, including Comverse’s products. In addition, the convergence of circuit and packet networks could be subject to governmental regulation. Currently, few laws or regulations apply to the Internet and to matters such as voice over the Internet. Regulatory initiatives in this area could decrease demand for Comverse’s products and increase the cost of its products, thereby adversely affecting Comverse’s business. Comverse is required to comply with stringent standards imposed through Indian telecommunications service providers on equipment and software vendors that are not Indian owned or controlled by the Department of Telecommunications of the Government of India (or the DoT). If Comverse is unable to comply with these standards its ability to conduct business in India will be substantially limited and our revenue, profitability and cash flows would be materially adversely affected. In addition, as part of its compliance with the DoT prescribed standards, Comverse is and will continue to be subject to significant indemnification obligations and various other obligations. In recent years our subsidiaries generated a material portion of their revenue from customers in India. In recent months, the DoT imposed certain limitations on the ability of Indian telecommunication service providers to purchase equipment and software from providers that are not Indian owned or controlled, such as Comverse. As part of these limitations, Indian telecommunication service providers are required to ensure stringent security standards in connection with the procurement of equipment or software from a non-Indian controlled provider. These standards are difficult to meet, have been subject to significant revisions in recent months and may be subject to further change by the DoT. Although Comverse currently complies with the DoT’s requirements, it may not be able to do so in the future. If Comverse is unable to comply with the DoT’s standards, its ability to sell its customer solutions and products in India will be substantially limited, and our revenue, profitability and cash flows would be materially adversely affected. In addition, as part of its compliance with the DoT prescribed standards, Comverse is and will continue to be subject to significant indemnification obligations and various other obligations. 42 Table of Contents Failure or delay by Comverse to achieve interoperability of its products with the systems of its customers could impair its ability to sell its products. In order to penetrate new target markets, it is important that Comverse ensures the interoperability of its products with the operations, administration, maintenance and provisioning systems used by its customers. Failure or delay in achieving such interoperability could impair Comverse’s ability to sell products to some segments of the communications market and would adversely affect its business, including its revenues, profitability and cash flows. Many of our subsidiaries’ sales are made by competitive bid which often require them to expend significant resources with no guaranty of recoupment. Many of our subsidiaries’ sales, particularly in larger installations, are made by competitive bid. Successfully competing in competitive bidding situations subjects our subsidiaries to risks associated with: • the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; • incurring research and development expenses to improve or refine products in advance of winning the bid; and • the substantial time, money, and effort, including design, development, and marketing activities, required to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to our subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries do not ultimately win a bid, they may obtain little or no benefit from these expenditures and may not be able to recoup them on future projects. Even where our subsidiaries are not involved in a competitive bidding process, due to the intense competition in our subsidiaries’ markets and increasing customer demand for shorter delivery periods, our subsidiaries must, in some cases, begin implementation of a project before the corresponding order has been finalized, increasing the risk that they will have to write off expenses associated with orders that do not come to fruition. In addition, our subsidiaries sell certain products as components in large bids submitted by third parties, including systems integrators. These third parties may not be able to win these bids for reasons unrelated to our subsidiaries’ products. Accordingly, our subsidiaries may lose potential business, which may be significant, for reasons beyond their control. If our subsidiaries are unable to maintain their relationships with value added resellers, systems integrators and other third parties that market and sell their products, our business and ability to grow could suffer. A significant portion of our subsidiaries’ revenues is generated by sales made through strategic and technology partners, distributors, agents, value added resellers and systems integrators. Our subsidiaries’ business success depends to a significant extent on maintaining and adding to these sales channels. If our subsidiaries’ relationships with these sales channels deteriorate or terminate, they may lose important sales and marketing opportunities. In pursuing new partnerships and strategic alliances, subsidiaries must often compete for the opportunity with similar solution providers. In order to effectively compete for such opportunities, our subsidiaries must introduce products tailored not only to meet specific partner needs, but to also meet evolving customer and prospective customer needs, and including innovative features and functionality easy for partners to sell and install. Even if our subsidiaries are able to win such opportunities on terms they find acceptable, they may be unable to realize the benefits they anticipate. Our subsidiaries’ competitors often seek to establish exclusive relationships with these sales channels or, at a minimum, to become a preferred partner for these channels. Many of our subsidiaries’ channel partners also partner with our subsidiaries’ competitors and may even offer our subsidiaries’ products and those of competitors as alternatives when presenting bids to end customers. 43 Table of Contents In addition, if an original equipment manufacturer (or OEM) that is part of our subsidiaries’ indirect sales channel experiences technical difficulties, our subsidiaries’ product sales through that channel may be adversely affected. When our subsidiaries sell their software through an OEM, their software is embedded in the OEM’s offering, which is sometimes referred to as the “environment” for their software. When the OEM’s product uses our subsidiaries’ software, there is a risk that the “environment” will fail or that it will not be fully compatible with our subsidiaries’ product. If this happens, our subsidiaries’ software may not function properly and sales of both the OEM product, and consequently, our subsidiaries’ product, may suffer. Third parties may infringe upon our subsidiaries’ proprietary technology and our subsidiaries may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our subsidiaries rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law and contractual non-disclosure and other provisions to protect their technology. These measures may not be sufficient to protect proprietary rights, and third parties may misappropriate our subsidiaries’ technologies and use for their own benefit. Also, most of these protections do not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features substantially equivalent or superior to our subsidiaries’ software. Any failure to protect our subsidiaries’ intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. While our subsidiaries regularly file patent applications, patents may not be issued on the basis of such applications and, if such patents are issued, they may not be sufficient to protect our subsidiaries’ technologies. In addition, any patents issued to our subsidiaries may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our subsidiaries’ efforts to protect their intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use their products or technologies. Effectively policing the unauthorized use of our subsidiaries’ products is time-consuming and costly, and the steps taken by our subsidiaries may not prevent misappropriation of their technologies, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. If others claim that certain of our subsidiaries’ products infringe their intellectual property rights, our subsidiaries may be forced to seek expensive licenses, reengineer their products, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation or stop marketing those products. Our subsidiaries have been party to patent litigations. Our subsidiaries attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in their product development efforts. There are many issued patents as well as patent applications in the fields in which our subsidiaries are engaged. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until published or issued, applications may have been filed which relate to our subsidiaries’ software and products. If our subsidiaries were to discover that their products violated or potentially violated third-party proprietary rights, they might not be able to continue offering these products without obtaining licenses for those products or without substantial reengineering of the products. Any reengineering effort may not be successful and such licenses may not be available. Even if such licenses were available, they may not be offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in technology related industries, and our subsidiaries’ products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in their industry segments grows and the functionality of software products in different industry segments overlaps. In addition, our subsidiaries agreed to indemnify certain customers in certain situations should it be determined that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. Any third-party infringement claims could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays or may require our subsidiaries to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Any royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to our subsidiaries, if at all. A successful claim of infringement against our subsidiaries and their failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, including revenues, profitability and cash flows. 44 Table of Contents Use of free or open source software could expose our subsidiaries’ products to unintended restrictions and could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our subsidiaries’ products contain free or open source software, referred to collectively as “open source software,” and we anticipate our subsidiaries will make additional use of open source software in the future. Open source software is generally covered by license agreements that permit the user to use, copy, modify and distribute the software without cost, provided that the users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source software generally provide no warranties on such software. Although our subsidiaries endeavor to monitor the use of open source software in their product development, past, present or future products may contain open source elements which impose unfavorable licensing restrictions or other requirements on their products. Certain contractual obligations could expose our subsidiaries to uncapped liabilities. Certain contract provisions, principally confidentiality and indemnification obligations in certain of our subsidiaries’ license agreements, could expose them to risks of loss that, in some cases, are not limited by contract to a specified maximum amount. Even where our subsidiaries are able to negotiate limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not always be enforced depending on the facts and circumstances of the case at hand. If our subsidiaries or their products fail to perform to the standards required by their contracts, they could be subject to uncapped liability for which they may or may not have adequate insurance and our business, financial condition and results of operations, including cash position and profitability, could be materially adversely affected. We have pursued and may continue to pursue mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments that present risks and may not be successful. We have made acquisitions in the past and continue to examine opportunities for growth through mergers and acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions entail a number of risks including: • the impact of assumption of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with the merged or acquired companies; • financing the acquisition through the use of cash reserves, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity securities, which may be dilutive to CTI’s existing shareholders; • the difficulty of assimilating the operations, personnel and customers of the acquired companies into our subsidiaries’ operations and business; • the potential disruption of our subsidiaries’ ongoing business and distraction of management; • the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our subsidiaries’ services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the difficulty of achieving the anticipated synergies from the combined businesses, including marketing, product integration, sales and distribution, product development and other synergies; • the failure to successfully develop acquired technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets at the date of the acquisition; • the potential for patent, trademark and other intellectual property infringement claims against the acquired company; 45 Table of Contents • the impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the acquired companies or our subsidiaries’ customers and partners as a result of the integration of acquired operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our subsidiaries’ employees as a result of integration of new management personnel; • the difficulty of integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems into existing administrative, financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, particularly in the case of large acquisitions; • the need to implement required controls, procedures and policies at private companies which, prior to acquisition, lacked such controls, procedures and policies; • in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding the impact of foreign laws and regulations, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries and the difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of language, cultural, systems and operational differences; • the potential inheritance of the acquired companies’ past financial statements with their associated risks; and • the potential need to write-down impaired goodwill associated with any such transaction in subsequent periods, resulting in charges to operations. Our subsidiaries are expected to continue to make significant investments in their business, and to examine opportunities for growth. These activities may involve significant expenditures and obligations that cannot readily be curtailed or reduced if anticipated demand for the associated products does not materialize or is delayed. The impact of these decisions on future financial results cannot be predicted with assurance, and our subsidiaries’ commitment to growth may increase their vulnerability to downturns in their markets, technology changes and shifts in competitive conditions. We are dependent upon hiring and retaining highly qualified employees. We believe that our future success depends in large part on our continued ability to hire, train, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified employees, including sales, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for highly qualified employees in our industry is significant. We believe that there are only a limited number of individuals with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions and it is difficult to hire and retain those individuals. In addition, until CTI becomes current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws and eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-8, we are likely to continue to experience difficulties in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, particularly at more senior levels, due to concerns about CTI’s failure to comply with its periodic reporting obligations, CTI’s limited ability to use common stock to retain and motivate employees and the restrictions on employees’ ability to exercise options and resell outstanding common stock. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees may have an adverse effect on our subsidiaries’ ability to develop new products and enhancements for existing products and to successfully market and sell those products. Verint incurred significant indebtedness in connection with its acquisition of Witness, which makes it highly leveraged, subjects it to restrictive covenants and could adversely affect its operations. 46 Table of Contents Risks associated with being highly leveraged. At October 31, 2010, Verint had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $598.2 million. As a result of its significant indebtedness, Verint is highly leveraged. Verint’s leverage position may, among other things: • limit its ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes; • require it to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to debt service, reducing the availability of its cash flow for other purposes; • require it to repatriate cash for debt service from its foreign subsidiaries resulting in dividend tax costs or require it to adopt other disadvantageous tax structures to accommodate debt service payments; or • increase its vulnerability to economic downturns, limit its ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, and restrict its flexibility to react to changes in market or industry conditions. In addition, because Verint’s indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate, it is exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. There can be no assurance that rating agencies will not downgrade Verint’s credit rating, which could impede Verint’s ability to refinance existing debt or secure new debt or otherwise increase its future cost of borrowing and could create additional concerns on the part of Verint’s customers, partners, investors and employees about its financial condition and results of operations. Risks associated with Verint’s leverage ratio and financial statement delivery covenants. Verint’s credit agreement contains a financial covenant that requires Verint to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a covenant requiring it to deliver audited financial statements to the lenders each year as provided below. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness—Verint Credit Facility” and note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report. Verint’s ability to comply with the leverage ratio covenant is highly dependent upon its ability to continue to grow earnings from quarter to quarter, which requires Verint to increase revenue while limiting increases in expenses or, if it is unable to increase or maintain revenue, to reduce expenses. Verint’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations and its leverage ratio covenant will depend upon its future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. Alternatively, Verint may seek to maintain compliance with the leverage ratio covenant by reducing its outstanding debt, including by raising additional funds through a number of means, including, but not limited to, securities offerings or asset sales. There can be no assurance that Verint will be able to grow its earnings, reduce its expenses and/or reduce its outstanding debt to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this covenant. In addition, any expense reductions undertaken to maintain compliance may impair Verint’s ability to compete by, among other things, limiting research and development or hiring of key personnel. The complexity of Verint’s revenue accounting and the continued shift of its business to the end of the fiscal quarter, has also increased the difficulty in accurately forecasting quarterly revenue and therefore in predicting whether it will be in compliance with the leverage ratio requirements at the end of each quarter. Verint’s credit agreement also includes a requirement that Verint deliver audited consolidated financial statements to the lenders within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year. In the past, Verint has not timely delivered such financial statements as required by its credit agreement and may in the future fail to make such deliveries. If audited consolidated financial statements are not so delivered, and such failure of delivery is not remedied within 30 days thereafter, and an amendment or waiver of such requirement is not obtained, an event of default occurs. 47 Table of Contents If an event of default occurs under the credit agreement, Verint’s lenders could declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. In that event, Verint may be forced to seek an amendment of and/or waiver under the credit agreement, sell assets, raise additional capital through a securities offering, or seek to refinance or restructure its debt. In such a case, there can be no assurance that Verint will be able to consummate such an amendment and/or waiver, sale or securities offering or refinancing or restructuring of its debt on reasonable terms or at all. Limitations resulting from the restrictive covenants in Verint’s credit agreement. Verint’s credit agreement also includes a number of restrictive covenants which limit Verint’s ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or liens or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem its stock or subordinated indebtedness; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • sell certain assets; • change Verint’s lines of business; • make investments, loans or advances; and • engage in consolidations, mergers, liquidations or dissolutions. These covenants could limit Verint’s ability to plan for or react to market conditions, to meet its capital needs, or to otherwise engage in transactions that might be considered beneficial to Verint. Verint is dependent on contracts with governments around the world for a significant portion of its revenue. These contracts also expose Verint to additional business risks and compliance obligations. For the nine months ended October 31, 2010 and the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, approximately one quarter of Verint’s business was generated from contracts with various governments around the world, including federal, state and local government agencies. We expect that government contracts will continue to be a significant source of Verint’s revenue for the foreseeable future. Verint’s business generated from government contracts may be materially adversely affected if: • its reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired; • it is suspended or otherwise prohibited from contracting with a domestic or foreign government or any significant law enforcement agency; • levels of government expenditures and authorizations for law enforcement and security related programs decrease or shift to programs in areas where it does not provide products and services; • it is prevented from entering into new government contracts or extending existing government contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations, including those related to procurement; • it is not granted security clearances that are required to sell its products to domestic or foreign governments or such security clearances are deactivated; • there is a change in government procurement procedures; or • there is a change in political climate that adversely affects Verint’s existing or prospective relationships. As a result of the consent judgment that Verint Systems entered into with the SEC relating to its reserves accounting practices, Verint Systems and its subsidiaries are required, for three years from the date of the settlement, to disclose that such a civil judgment was rendered against it in any proposals to 48 Table of Contents perform new government work for U.S. federal agencies. In addition, Verint Systems and its subsidiaries must amend their representations in existing grants and contracts with U.S. federal agencies to reflect the civil judgment. While this certification does not bar Verint from receiving government grants or contracts from U.S. federal agencies, each government procurement official has the discretion to determine whether it considers Verint Systems and its subsidiaries “responsible” companies for purposes of each transaction. The government procurement officials may also seek advice from government agency debarring officials to determine if Verint Systems and its subsidiaries should be considered for suspension or debarment from receiving government contracts or grants from U.S. federal agencies. In addition, Verint must comply with domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how Verint does business with government agencies in various countries and may impose added costs on its business. Verint’s government contracts may contain, or under applicable law may be deemed to contain, provisions not typically found in private commercial contracts, including provisions enabling the government party to: • terminate or cancel existing contracts for convenience; • in the case of the U.S. federal government, suspend Verint from doing business with a foreign government or prevent it from selling its products in certain countries; • audit and object to Verint’s contract-related costs and expenses, including allocated indirect costs; and • unilaterally change contract terms and conditions, including warranty provisions, schedule, quantities and scope of work, in advance of its agreement on corresponding pricing adjustments. The effect of these provisions may significantly increase Verint’s cost to perform the contract or defer its ability to recognize revenue from such contracts. In some cases, this may mean that Verint must begin recording expenses on a contract in advance of being able to recognize the corresponding revenue. If a government customer terminates a contract with Verint for convenience, Verint may not recover its incurred or committed costs, receive any settlement of expenses, or earn a profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, Verint may not recover these amounts, and, in addition, it may be liable for any costs incurred by the government customer in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Further, an agency within a government may share information regarding Verint’s termination with other agencies. As a result, Verint’s ongoing or prospective relationships with other government agencies could be impaired. Verint may not be able to receive or retain the necessary licenses or authorizations required for it to export some of the products that it develops or manufactures in specific countries. Verint is required to obtain export licenses or qualify for other authorizations from the United States, Israel and other governments to export some of the products that it develops or manufactures in these countries and, in any event, is required to comply with applicable export control laws of each country generally. There can be no assurance that Verint will be successful in obtaining or maintaining the licenses and other authorizations required to export its products from applicable government authorities. In addition, export laws and regulations are revised from time to time and can be extremely complex in their application. If Verint is found not to have complied with applicable export control laws, it may be fined or penalized by, among other things, having its ability to obtain export licenses curtailed or eliminated, possibly for an extended period of time. Verint’s failure to receive or maintain any required export licenses or authorizations or its penalization for failure to comply with applicable export control laws would hinder its ability to sell its products and could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 49 Table of Contents U.S. and foreign governments could refuse to buy Verint’s Communications Intelligence solutions or could deactivate its security clearances in their countries thereby restricting or eliminating Verint’s ability to sell these solutions in those countries and perhaps other countries influenced by such a decision. Some of Verint Systems’ subsidiaries maintain security clearances in the United States and other countries in connection with the development, marketing, sale, and support of Verint’s Communications Intelligence solutions. These clearances are reviewed from time to time by the applicable government agencies in these countries and, following these reviews, Verint’s security clearances are either maintained or deactivated. Verint’s security clearances can be deactivated for many reasons, including that the clearing agencies in some countries may object to the fact that it does business in certain other countries or the fact that its local subsidiary is affiliated with or controlled by an entity based in another country. In the event that Verint’s security clearances are deactivated in any particular country, it would lose the ability to sell its Communications Intelligence solutions in that country for projects that require security clearances. Additionally, any inability to obtain or maintain security clearances in a particular country may affect Verint’s ability to sell its Communications Intelligence solutions in that country generally (even for non-secure projects). Verint has in the past, and may in the future, have its security clearances deactivated. Any inability to obtain or maintain clearances can materially adversely affect Verint’s results of operations. Whether or not Verint is able to maintain its security clearances, law enforcement and intelligence agencies in certain countries may decline to purchase Communications Intelligence solutions if they were not developed or manufactured in that country. As a result, because Verint’s Communications Intelligence solutions are developed or manufactured in whole or in part in Israel or in Germany, there may be certain countries where some or all of the law enforcement and intelligence agencies are unwilling to purchase Verint’s Communications Intelligence solutions. If Verint is unable to sell its Communications Intelligence solutions in certain countries for this reason, its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The mishandling or even the perception of mishandling of sensitive information could harm Verint’s business. Verint’s products are in some cases used by customers to compile and analyze highly sensitive or confidential information and data, including in some cases, information or data used in intelligence gathering or law enforcement activities. Customers are also increasingly focused on the security of Verint’s products. While Verint’s customers’ use of its products in no way affords Verint access to the customer’s sensitive or confidential information or data, Verint may come into contact with such information or data when it performs services or support functions for its customers. Verint has implemented policies and procedures to help ensure the proper handling of such information and data, including background screening of services personnel, non-disclosure agreements, access rules, and controls on its information technology systems. Verint also works to ensure the security of its products, including through the use of encryption, access rights and other customary security features. However, these measures are designed to mitigate the risks associated with handling or processing sensitive data and cannot safeguard against all risks at all times. The improper handling of sensitive data, or even the perception of such mishandling or other security lapses or risks by Verint or its products, whether or not valid, could reduce demand for Verint’s products or otherwise expose it to financial or reputational harm. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to International Operations Geopolitical, economic and military conditions in countries in which our subsidiaries operate may adversely affect our subsidiaries. Geopolitical, economic and military conditions could directly affect our subsidiaries’ operations. Recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, including terrorist activities, military actions or political unrest in countries in which our subsidiaries operate and the nationalization of privately owned telecommunications companies, may cause disruptions to our subsidiaries’ business. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our subsidiaries’ products, the business, including the revenues, profitability and cash flows, of our subsidiaries could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if these events result in restrictions on travel or unsafe travel conditions, the ability of our subsidiaries to service their existing clients and secure new business from potential new clients will be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries have significant international sales, which subjects them to risks inherent in foreign operations. Our subsidiaries currently derive a significant portion of their total revenues from customers outside of the United States and maintain significant operations in Israel, France, the United Kingdom, India, China and Canada and elsewhere throughout the world. Conducting business internationally exposes our subsidiaries to particular risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including, but not limited to: • lack of acceptance of non-localized products; • legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business; • difficulties in hiring qualified foreign employees and staffing and managing foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and withholding taxes that limit the repatriation of cash; • tariffs and trade conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • rapid and unforeseen changes in economic conditions in individual countries; • increased costs resulting from lack of proximity to customers; • difficulties in complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions, including tax laws, labor laws, employee benefits, customs requirements and currency restrictions; • different tax regimes and potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in foreign countries; • immigration regulations that limit our ability to deploy our employees; • difficulties in complying with applicable export laws and regulations requiring licensure or authorization to sell products; • difficulties in repatriating cash held by our foreign subsidiaries on a tax efficient basis; and • turbulence in foreign currency and credit markets. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. 51 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries’ business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments, including with government owned or controlled telecommunications carriers, increase the risks associated with their international activities. As our subsidiaries operate and sell internationally, they are subject to the FCPA and other laws of the United States and other countries that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our subsidiaries have operations, deal with customers and make sales in countries known to experience corruption. Our subsidiaries’ activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of their employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various U.S. and local laws, including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our subsidiaries’ control. As noted above, CTI’s Audit Committee conducted an internal investigation of alleged improper payments made from 2001 through 2007 by certain Comverse employees and external sales agents in foreign jurisdictions in connection with the sale of certain products. CTI voluntarily disclosed the matter to the SEC and the DOJ. Our subsidiaries had implemented safeguards in an effort to eliminate improper practices by their employees, consultants, external sales agents and resellers. These safeguards, however, have proven to be ineffective in some instances. In response to the findings of the Audit Committee’s internal investigation, we identified a material weakness in our anti-fraud program controls, including those relating to the FCPA, and our subsidiaries’ safeguards were modified. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” However, these modified safeguards, the implementation of these remedial measures and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our subsidiaries’ employees, consultants, external sales agents or distributors may engage in the future in conduct for which they might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA and other laws of the United States and other countries may result in significant civil and/or criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, violations of these laws, including the FCPA, may harm our subsidiaries’ reputation and deter governmental agencies and other existing or potential customers from buying our subsidiaries’ products and engaging their services. Currency exchange rates, fluctuations of currency exchange rates and limitations imposed by certain countries on the outflow of their currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although partially mitigated by our hedging activities, we are impacted by currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof in a number of ways, including the fact that: • A significant portion of our subsidiaries’ expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, is incurred in new Israeli shekels (or NIS), whereas the currency we use to report our financial results is the U.S. dollar and most of our subsidiaries’ revenues are generated in dollars. A significant strengthening of the NIS against the U.S. dollar can considerably increase the U.S. dollar value of our expenses in Israel. Should the NIS increase its strength in comparison to the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar value of these expenses will correspondingly increase, and our results of operations will be adversely affected; • A portion of our subsidiaries’ international sales is denominated in currencies other than dollars, such as the Euro, thereby exposing us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions; • A substantial proportion of our subsidiaries’ international sales is denominated in dollars. Accordingly, devaluation in the local currencies of our subsidiaries’ customers relative to the U.S. dollar may impair the purchasing power of our customers and could cause customers to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment, which could harm our results of operations; and 52 Table of Contents • We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into dollars for our consolidated financial statements. During periods of a strengthening dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer dollars. As noted above, from time to time, our subsidiaries enter into hedging transactions to attempt to limit the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. However, such hedging transactions may not prevent all exchange rate-related losses and risks. Therefore, our business and profitability may be harmed by such exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, certain countries limit the outflow of their currencies to purchase products from foreign companies thus limiting the ability of existing or potential customers to purchase our subsidiaries’ products. As a result, these practices may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including revenues, profitability and cash flows. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Conditions in Israel may materially adversely affect our subsidiaries’ operations and personnel and may limit their ability to produce and sell their products. Our subsidiaries have significant operations in Israel, including research and development, manufacturing, sales, and support. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts and terrorist acts have taken place, which in the past and may in the future, lead to security and economic problems for Israel. Current and future conflicts and political, economic and/or military conditions in Israel and the Middle East region have affected and may in the future affect our operations in Israel. The exacerbation of violence in Israel or the outbreak of violent conflicts involving Israel may impede our subsidiaries’ ability to manufacture, sell, and support our products, engage in research and development, or otherwise adversely affect their business or operations. In addition, many of our subsidiaries’ employees in Israel are required to perform annual mandatory military service and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The absence of these employees may have an adverse effect on our subsidiaries’ operations. Hostilities involving Israel may also result in the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Research and development grants and tax benefits certain of our subsidiaries receive in Israel may be reduced or eliminated in the future, and grants received may limit their ability to transfer know-how and manufacture outside Israel. Certain of our subsidiaries receive grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor of the State of Israel (or the OCS) for the financing of a portion of their research and development expenditures in Israel. The availability in any given year of these OCS grants depends on OCS approval of the projects and related budgets that our subsidiaries submit to the OCS each year. In addition, in recent years, the Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs and these programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. The continued reduction in these benefits or the termination of our eligibility to receive these benefits may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Investment programs in manufacturing equipment and leasehold improvements at facilities of certain of our subsidiaries in Israel have been granted approved enterprise status and these subsidiaries are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments. The Government of Israel may reduce or eliminate the tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs such as the programs provided to our subsidiaries. These tax benefits may not continue in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits are reduced or eliminated, the amount of tax that our 53 Table of Contents subsidiaries pay in Israel will increase. In addition, if these subsidiaries fail to comply with any of the conditions and requirements of the investment programs, the tax benefits they have received may be rescinded and they may be required to disgorge the amount of the tax benefit received, together with interest and penalties. In addition, the OCS grants limit, to a certain extent, the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to transfer technology, know-how and manufacture products outside Israel if such technology, know-how or products were developed using these grants. These limitations may impair the ability of some of our subsidiaries to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those technologies, know-how or products. The ability of CTI’s Israeli subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to limitations under Israeli law and dividends paid and loans extended by Israeli subsidiaries may be subject to taxes. The ability of our Israeli subsidiaries to pay dividends is governed by Israeli law, which provides that dividends may be paid by an Israeli corporation only out of its earnings as defined in accordance with the Israeli Companies Law of 1999, provided that there is no reasonable concern that such payment will cause such subsidiary to fail to meet its current and expected liabilities as they come due. Cash dividends paid by an Israeli corporation to United States resident corporate parents are subject to provisions of the Convention for the Avoidance of Double Taxation between Israel and the United States of America (referred to as the Convention). Under the terms of the Convention, dividends paid out of income derived in respect of a period for which an Israeli company is entitled to the reduced tax rate applicable to an Approved Enterprise are generally subject to withholding of Israeli income tax at source at a rate of 15%. In addition, in case the dividend is distributed out of tax exempted income (derived in a period in which a company was entitled to tax exempt income in accordance with the Encouragement Law), a company will be subject, in the tax year in which the dividend is distributed, to corporate tax on the grossed up transferred amounts, according to the corporate tax rate to which our income was subject. CTI or any of its U.S subsidiaries would generally be subject to U.S. tax on receipt of any dividends from its Israeli subsidiaries, but would generally be entitled to claim a U.S. tax credit or deduction for the amount of any Israeli withholding tax or any Israeli income taxes paid by the subsidiary on the dividends distributed. In addition, adverse U.S. tax consequences may apply to loans or credit support arrangements extended by our Israeli subsidiaries to their U.S. shareholders, including CTI. Risks Related to CTI’s Common Stock CTI’s common stock is traded over-the-counter on the “Pink Sheets,” which limits the liquidity of its common stock. Due to the delay in filing its periodic reports under the Exchange Act, CTI was unable to comply with the listing standards of NASDAQ and, consequently, its common stock was suspended from trading effective February 1, 2007 and formally delisted effective June 1, 2007. Since that time, CTI’s common stock has been traded over-the-counter on the “Pink Sheets” under the symbol “CMVT.PK.” Broker-dealers often decline to trade in “Pink Sheet” stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater. Consequently, the opportunity to sell CTI’s common stock may be limited. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of CTI’s common stock as well as lower trading volume than would occur if CTI’s common stock traded on a national securities exchange, such as NASDAQ. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risk of losing their entire investment in CTI’s common stock. 54 Table of Contents CTI is not yet in a position to seek relisting of its common stock on a national securities exchange. As discussed above, as a result of the delay in filing its periodic reports under the Exchange Act, CTI was unable to comply with the listing standards of NASDAQ and its common stock was suspended from trading effective February 1, 2007 and formally delisted effective June 1, 2007. Consequently, CTI’s common stock is traded over-the-counter on the “Pink Sheets.” After it becomes current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, CTI intends to apply for the relisting of its common stock on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange as soon as practicable. However, CTI may not be successful in relisting its common stock on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, in which event the liquidity or market price of its common stock may be adversely affected. After CTI becomes current in its periodic reporting obligations and has an effective registration statement on Form S-8 with the SEC, current and former employees will be able to exercise stock options, will receive shares in settlement of vested deferred stock unit (or DSU) awards and may sell a significant number of shares of CTI’s common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares may result in declines in the market price of CTI’s common stock. As a result of its failure to be current in its periodic reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, CTI has been ineligible to use its registration statements on Form S-8. CTI will seek to have an effective registration statement on Form S-8 as soon as practicable after it becomes current in such reporting obligations, which would permit holders of stock options to exercise their options and freely sell the shares purchased upon exercise. After CTI has an effective registration statement on Form S-8, holders may decide to exercise a significant number of stock options, will be entitled to receive shares in settlement of vested DSU awards and may sell a significant number of shares of CTI’s common stock. As of October 31, 2010, current and former employees held (i) vested stock options to purchase 12,064,648 shares of CTI’s common stock, of which stock options to purchase an aggregate of 1,279,378 shares of common stock had an exercise price per share lower than the closing market price per share of common stock on such date and (ii) vested DSU awards covering 975,493 shares of common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares by current and former employees may result in declines in the market price of CTI’s common stock. CTI may issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of its issued and outstanding common stock. CTI may issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of its issued and outstanding common stock. CTI has used and may continue to use its common stock or securities convertible into common stock to acquire technology, products, product rights and businesses, or reduce or retire indebtedness, if any, among other purposes. In addition, pursuant to an agreement to settle a shareholder class action, which agreement was approved by the court in which such action was pending on June 23, 2010, CTI has the right to elect to pay, in lieu of cash, up to an aggregate of $82.5 million of the settlement consideration due on or before November 15, 2011 in shares of CTI’s common stock valued using the ten day average of the closing prices of such shares prior to such election, provided that such shares are then listed on a national securities exchange. Furthermore, the Board intends to adopt and submit for shareholder approval, a new equity incentive plan as recommended by the Special Committee. Due to our limited ability to grant equity compensation to our employees since March 2006, the number of shares that will be authorized for issuance upon exercise of stock options or otherwise under this new equity incentive plan may be significant. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities for these or other purposes would result in dilution of existing shareholders’ equity interests. In addition, the Board has the authority to cause CTI to issue, without vote or action of shareholders, up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, 55 Table of Contents liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of CTI’s common stock. CTI is also authorized to issue, without shareholder approval, common stock under certain circumstances. The issuance of either preferred or common stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire, or could discourage a person from seeking to acquire, control of CTI. If this occurs, investors could lose the opportunity to receive a premium on the sale of their shares in a change of control transaction. Provisions in CTI’s governing documents and New York corporate law have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate shareholders’ ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of CTI’s Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, By-Laws, as amended, and in New York corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of CTI by a third-party which is opposed to by CTI’s management and the Board. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change of control or change in CTI’s management and the Board. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by CTI’s Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and discourage a takeover attempt; • limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to CTI’s Board of Directors; and • a requirement that any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting. 56 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the SEC which remain unresolved. 57 Table of Contents 