Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Failure to keep pace with a changing technological environment could negatively impact our business. The computer industry in general, and the market for our application software offerings and services, is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent new technology introductions, and significant competition. In order to keep pace with this rapidly changing market environment, we must continually develop and incorporate into our services new technological advances and features desired by the marketplace at acceptable prices. The successful development and commercialization of new services and technology involves many risks, including the identification of new opportunities, timely completion of the development process, the control and recovery of development and production costs and acceptance by customers of our products and services. If we are unsuccessful in identifying, developing and marketing our services and technology or adapting our business to rapid technological change, it will have a material negative impact on our results of operations. We are subject to intense competition from other companies engaged in software development and computer related services. The market for our products and services is competitive, rapidly evolving, and can be affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Some of these companies have longer operating histories, greater financial, marketing and other resources, greater name recognition in other markets and a larger base of customers than IAI. In addition, some companies have well-established relationships with our current and prospective customers. As a result, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Should we not be able to maintain our competitive advantages in light of these factors, it could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Information Analysis Incorporated 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of services and the timeline for completion of contracts, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. Our commercial and federal government contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the cost to provide the services. To generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the services required by the contract and be able to complete the contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in the way the US government contracts with businesses, and changes in the funding priorities of the US government may materially and adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Since the US government is our largest customer, both directly and with us as a subcontractor, changes in the way the government awards contracts may create a disadvantage for us to compete in certain markets. Additionally, the funding priorities of the US government are subject to change. If the information technology services that we are equipped to provide are no longer a priority, it may materially and adversely affect us as funding is shifted to new priorities. Contracts on which we utilize subcontractors or suppliers may be adversely affected if our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform required obligations under the contract. We frequently utilize subcontract labor on contracts where we bid as partners, we lack a specific type of expertise, or where the subcontractor has brought the opportunity to us. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform as specified, it may adversely affect our contracts and subject us to loss of the contracts, unintended expenses, and/or the inability to secure future contracts due to our nonperformance. US government contracts are generally subject to terms more favorable to the customer than commercial contracts. US government contracts generally contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the federal government to: • terminate our existing contracts; • reduce potential future income from our existing contracts; • modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; • suspend or permanently prohibit us from doing business with the federal government or with any specific government agency; • impose fines and penalties; • subject the award of some contracts to protest or challenge by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest or challenge and which may also require the government to solicit new proposals for the contract or result in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; • suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related task orders if the necessary funds are not appropriated by Congress; • decline to exercise an option to extend an existing multiple year contract; and • claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. The federal government may terminate a contract with us either “for convenience” (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs or its desire to consolidate work under another contract) or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. If the federal government terminates a contract with us for convenience, we generally would be entitled to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If the federal government terminates a contract with us based upon our default, we generally would be denied any recovery for undelivered work, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the federal government in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source and other damages as authorized by law. 6 Table of Contents Information Analysis Incorporated 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K Our federal government contracts typically have terms of one or more base years and one or more option years. Federal governmental agencies generally have the right not to exercise options to extend a contract. A decision to terminate or not to exercise options to extend our existing contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel to maintain our profitability and grow our business. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of our key personnel. A loss of certain key personnel, both managerial and technical, would most likely have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel throughout the industry is significant and we may be unable to retain our current personnel or attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. If we do not succeed in retaining our current personnel or in attracting and motivating new personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Failure to adequately integrate prospective new businesses or acquisitions could materially impact and disrupt our business. We are seeking to expand our business and may acquire or make investments in companies or businesses offering complementary products, services and technologies in the future. Acquisitions and investments typically involve numerous risks including, but not limited to difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel and diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations. To manage this prospective growth effectively, we may need to implement additional management information systems capabilities, further develop our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls, improve coordination among accounting, finance, marketing and operations and hire and train additional personnel. Should these prospective integrations prove more difficult and time consuming than anticipated, it could negatively impact our results of operations. Fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period may cause fluctuations in our stock price. Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter based on certain factors such as the timing of significant orders, contract funding approvals and contract completions, some of which are beyond our control. As a consequence, our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period, and period comparisons may therefore not be meaningful. Such fluctuations in the future could contribute to corresponding fluctuations in our stock price and in certain cases cause the trading price of our stock to decline. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock could substantially dilute shareholders’ investments. Under the terms of existing warrants to purchase our common stock, non compensatory options to acquire our common stock, and other outstanding options to acquire our common stock issued to employees and others, the holders thereof are given an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock that, upon the exercise of such warrants and/or options or conversion of such notes, could result in dilution in the interests of our other shareholders. Our business potential could be impacted by our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our technologies, products, and processes, and our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of other parties. We may not be able to obtain copyright, patent or other protection for our proprietary technologies or for certain processes developed by our employees. Legal standards relating to intellectual property rights in computer software are still developing and this area of the law is evolving with new technologies. Any copyrights, patents or other registrations may not sufficiently protect us against competitors with similar technology. In addition, our intellectual property rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. Our intellectual property rights do not guarantee any competitive advantage. Because our success in part relies upon our technologies, if proper protection is not available or can be circumvented, our business may be negatively impacted. 7 Table of Contents Information Analysis Incorporated 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K There is a limited public market for our common stock Our common stock is presently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “IAIC”, and the securities are traded through broker-dealers. Because our stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board rather than on a national securities exchange, a shareholder may find it difficult to either dispose of, or obtain quotations as to the price of our common stock. There has historically been a low trading volume of our shares which may have an adverse impact on a shareholder’s ability to execute transactions of our shares. Our forward-looking statements and projections may prove to be inaccurate. Our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections and may be better or worse than projected. Given these uncertainties, you should not rely on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws. 