Item 1A. Risk Factors Our line of credit contains, and our future debt agreements may contain, covenants that may restrict our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, including financing future operations or capital needs or engaging in other business activities that require us to maintain specific financial ratios or levels. Our line of credit restricts, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: ·incur additional debt; ·pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock; ·purchase, redeem or retire capital stock; ·make acquisitions and investments; ·create liens on our assets; ·enter into certain transactions with affiliates; ·merge or consolidate with another company; or ·transfer or sell assets outside the ordinary course of business. In addition, our line of credit requires that we maintain compliance with certain financial ratios and levels, such as a minimum tangible net worth and a minimum current ratio. It is possible that these covenants may adversely impact our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs to pursue available business opportunities. Additionally, a failure to comply with any of these covenants could lead to a default under our line of credit which could result in an acceleration of indebtedness and prevent us from having access to the line of credit for future borrowings to fund our cash and working capital needs. We are dependent on government contracts for the majority of our revenue, and a reduction or delay in spending by government agencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. Contracts with agencies of the United States government and various state and local governments represented approximately 97% of our revenue in fiscal year 2013, with only 3% of our revenue coming from commercial sources. Therefore, the majority of our revenue and the success of our business are materially dependent on contracts with governmental agencies. Companies engaged in government contracting are subject to certain unique business risks not shared by the general commercial sector. Among these risks are: 6 ·a competitive procurement process with no firm schedule or guarantee of contracts being awarded; ·competitive pricing pressure that may require reductions in costs in order to realize revenue under contracts; ·award of work to competitors and not to us due to policy reasons; ·dependence on congressional and state appropriations and administrative allotment of funds; ·policies and regulations that can be changed at any time by governing bodies; ·competing political priorities and changes in the political climate regarding funding and operations of the services; ·shifts in buying practices and policy changes regarding the use of private contractors; ·changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs or requirements; ·government contracts that are usually awarded for relatively short periods of time and are subject to renewal options in favor of the government; and ·many contracts with U.S. government agencies require annual funding and may be terminated at the agency’s discretion. The U.S. government contracting laws provide that the U.S. government is to do business only with responsible contractors. Accordingly, U.S. government agencies have the authority under certain circumstances to suspend or debar a contractor from bidding on government contracts. A reduction or shift in spending priorities by U.S. government agencies could limit or eliminate the continued funding of our existing government contracts or awards of new contracts or new task orders under existing contracts. These reductions or shifts in spending, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Continued inability of the legislative and executive branches of the federal government to agree on a budget for key agencies or to enact appropriations in a timely manner could delay and has delayed in past years the award of contracts. These delays, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We place greater reliance on financial and operational integrity of Small Business firms due to greater Small Business contract award requirements on government agencies and greater emphasis on Small Business subcontracting plans upon award to Versar. Our government contracts are subject to audit and potential reduction of costs and fees. Contracts with the U.S. government and many other state and local governmental agencies are subject to audit by governmental agencies, which could result in the disallowance of certain costs and expenses. These audits can result in the disallowance of significant costs and expenses if the auditing agency determines, in its discretion, that certain costs and expenses were not warranted, allowable, or were excessive. Disallowance of costs and expenses, if pervasive or significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations; a violation of any such law or regulation could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor. We must comply with and are affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our government clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our personnel or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or improper activities. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor and could cause our reputation to suffer serious harm. Loss of our status as an eligible government contractor would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 7 Actual or perceived conflicts of interest may prevent us from being able to bid on or perform contracts. U.S. government agencies have conflict of interest policies that may prevent us from bidding on or performing certain contracts. When dealing with U.S. government agencies that have conflict of interest policies, we must decide, at times with insufficient information, whether to participate in the procurement process in light of the fact that such performance could preclude us from participating in a related procurement. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on particular projects because of actual or perceived conflicts of interest. We are likely to continue encountering such conflicts of interest in the future. Future conflicts of interest could cause us to be unable to secure key contracts with U.S. government customers. Robust enforcement of environmental regulations is important to our financial success. Our business is materially dependent on the continued enforcement by local, state and federal governments of various environmental regulations. From time to time, depending on political pressures, local, state and federal agencies relax environmental clean-up standards to promote economic growth and to discourage industrial businesses from relocating. Any relaxation in environmental and compliance standards could impact our ability to secure additional contracting work with such agencies or with other federal agencies that operate or manage contaminated property. Further, in a period of relaxed environmental standards, private industry may be less willing to allocate funds to consulting services designed to prevent or remediate environmental problems. Many of our U.S. government customers procure goods and services through indefinite delivery / indefinite quantity (“ID/IQ”), government wide acquisition contract (“GWAC”) or GSA Schedule contracts under which we must compete for post-award orders. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. government customers to purchase goods and services through ID/IQ, GSA Schedule contracts and other multiple award and/or GWAC contract vehicles. These contract vehicles increase competition and pricing pressure requiring us to make sustained post-award efforts to obtain awards and realize revenue. There can be no assurance that we will increase revenue or otherwise sell successfully under these contract vehicles. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and our ability to meet our financial obligations. If we fail to recover at-risk contract costs, we may have reduced fees or losses. We are at risk for any costs we incur before a contract is executed, modified or renewed. A customer may choose not to pay us for these costs. While such costs are typically associated with specific anticipated contracts and funding modifications, we cannot be certain that our customers will execute these contracts or contract renewals or that they we pay us for all our related at-risk costs. If unrecovered at-risk costs are significant, we may experience a decline in contract margins or experience losses on certain contracts or in certain periods, resulting in reduced profitability. We could face potential liability for failure to properly design remediation. A part of our business involves the design and implementation of remediation at environmental clean-up sites. If we fail to properly design and build a remediation system or if someone claims that we did, we could face expensive litigation and settlement costs. If we failed to successfully defend against such a lawsuit, it could materially adversely affect our business. Environmental laws and regulations and our use of hazardous materials may subject us to significant liabilities. Our operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, as well as environmental laws and regulations in the various countries in which we operate. We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of regulated substances and waste products, such as radioactive, biochemical or other hazardous materials and explosives. We may incur substantial costs in the future because of: modifications to current laws and regulations; new laws and regulations; new guidance or new interpretation of existing laws or regulations; violations of environmental laws or required operating permits; or discovery of previously unknown contamination. 8 Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims. Our engagements often involve complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients, and to effectively manage the projects and deploy appropriate resources in a timely manner. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our client’s expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may exceed the fees we derive from performance. Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various laws and regulations and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we sometimes may assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We are not able to predict the magnitude of any such liabilities. We obtain insurance from third parties to cover our potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. We are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally. A large portion of our business is conducted internationally. Consequently, we are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following: ·export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; ·compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; ·compliance with the U.K Bribery Act; ·the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations; ·contract award and funding delays; ·potential restrictions on transfers of funds; ·foreign currency fluctuations; ·import and export duties and value added taxes; ·transportation delays and interruptions; ·uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and cultural considerations; and ·potential military conflicts, civil strife and political risks. While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our foreign business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate. 9 Political destabilization or insurgency in the regions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance. Certain regions in which we operate are highly unstable. Insurgent activities in the areas in which we operate may cause further destabilization in these regions. There can be no assurance that the regions in which we operate will continue to be stable enough to allow us to operate profitably or at all. During fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011, revenue generated from our operations in international locations, which included our reconstruction work in Iraq and Afghanistan, contributed 39%, 36%, and 40% of our revenue, respectively. We have been required to increase compensation to our personnel as an incentive to deploy them to these regions. To date, we have been able to recover this added cost under our contracts, but we may not be able to recover from future increases, if required, from our customers through our contracts. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such increased compensation costs to our customers, our operating margins would be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our operating performance. In addition, increased insurgent activities or destabilization, including civil unrest or a civil war in Iraq or Afghanistan, may lead to a determination by the U.S. government to halt our operations in a particular location, country or region and to perform the services using military personnel. Shifts in governmental priorities could potentially impact our contracts in certain regions. In extreme circumstances, the U.S. government may decide to terminate all U.S. government activities, including our operations under U.S. government contracts in a particular location, country or region and to withdraw all military personnel. Any of the foregoing could severely affect our operating performance and may result in additional costs and expenses and loss of revenue. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. From time to time, we enter joint venture agreements and other contractual arrangements with partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends in part on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations by our partners. If any of our partners fail to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete projects, increasing our cost on those projects. If we are unable to adequately address a partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We operate in highly competitive industries. The markets for many of our services are highly competitive. There are numerous professional architectural, engineering, construction management, and environmental consulting firms, and other organizations that offer many of the same services offered by us. We compete with many companies that have greater resources than us and we cannot provide assurance that such competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to their business in a manner competitive with the services provided by us. Competitive factors include reputation, performance, price, geographic location and availability of technically skilled personnel. In addition, we face competition from the use by our clients of in-house environmental, engineering and other staff. Future acquisition candidates may be unsuccessful. Acquisitions that are consummated may require us to incur costs and liabilities or have other unexpected consequences which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition to internal or organic growth, our current growth strategy involves growth through acquisitions of complementary businesses as well as growth from acquisitions that would diversify our current service offerings. Like other companies with similar growth strategies, we may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy as we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing, or consummate any future acquisitions. We frequently engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and negotiations for possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Although it is our general objective only to acquire companies in transactions which will be accretive to both earnings and cash flow, any potential acquisitions may result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Acquisitions may entail integration and management of the acquired businesses to realize economies of scale and control costs. In addition, acquisitions may involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of securities. As a result of the consummation of acquisitions of other businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us. We may not realize the full anticipated benefit of any acquired business that has operated as a small business (as determined by the Small Business Administration based upon the North American Industry Classification Systems) if following their acquisition by us certain of their contracts are revoked or not renewed because they fail to continue to maintain small business status. 10 An economic downturn may have a material adverse effect on our business. In an economic recession, or under other adverse economic conditions that may arise from natural or man-made events, customers and vendors may be less likely to meet contractual terms and payment or delivery obligations. In particular, if the U.S. government changes its operational priorities in Iraq and/or Afghanistan, reduces the DOD Operations and Maintenance budget or reduces funding for Department of State initiatives in which we participate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be severely affected. Our quarterly and annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: ·the seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the U.S. government, and the spending patterns of our private sector clients; ·the hiring and utilization rates of employees in the United States and internationally; ·the number and significance of client engagements commenced and completed during the period; ·the delays incurred in connection with an engagement because of weather or other factors; ·the ability to work within foreign countries’ regulations, tax requirements and obligations; ·the business, financial, and security risks related to working in foreign countries; ·the ability of clients to terminate engagements without penalties; ·the creditworthiness and solvency of clients; ·the size and scope of engagements; ·the delay in federal, state and local government procurements; ·the ability to perform contracts within budget or contractual limitations; ·the timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; ·any threatened or pending litigation matters; ·periodic reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; ·the likelihood of winning the re-bids of our existing large government contracts; ·the general economic and political conditions; ·the loss of a major contract or the shutdown of a major program; ·the volatility of currencies in foreign countries; and ·the integration of any acquisition or the ability of an acquired business to continue to perform as in the past. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in net losses and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We are highly dependent on key personnel and our business could suffer if we fail to continue to attract, train and retain skilled employees. Our business is managed by a number of key management and operating and professional personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Availability of highly trained and skilled professional, administrative and technical personnel is critical to our future growth and profitability. Even in the current economic climate, competition in our industry for scientists, engineers, technicians, management and professional personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. Competition for experienced personnel, particularly in highly specialized areas, has made it more difficult for us to timely meet all our staffing needs. We cannot be certain we will be able to continue to attract and retain required staff. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and our ability to meet our financial obligations. Failure to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our business. Some of our contracts require us to staff a program with personnel the customer considers key to successful performance. If we cannot provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutes, the customer may terminate the contract, and we may not be able to recover our costs. 11 In order to succeed, we will have to keep up with a variety of rapidly changing technologies. Various factors could affect our ability to keep pace with these changes. Our success will depend on our ability to keep pace with changing technologies which can occur rapidly in our core business segments. Even if we keep up with the latest developments and available technology, newer services or technologies could negatively affect our business. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, which could harm our business. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Employee misconduct could include intentional failures to comply with U.S. government procurement regulations, unauthorized activities, attempts to obtain reimbursement for improper expenses, or submission of falsified time records. Employee misconduct could also involve improper use of our customers’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us. Negative press reports regarding employee misconduct could harm our reputation with the government agencies with which we work. If our reputation with these agencies is negatively affected, or if we are suspended or debarred from contracting with government agencies for any reason, our future revenues and growth prospects would be adversely affected. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and our ability to meet our financial obligations. Internal system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenue, profitability and operating results. Our information technology systems are subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Any such failures could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. Failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Any system or service disruptions if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated could have a material adverse effect on our business including, among other things, an adverse effect on our ability to bill our customers for work performed on our contracts, collect the amounts that have been billed and produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 