Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business If the current high unemployment rate in the U.S. continues or worsens, the occupancy and rents at our properties may decline. If the current high unemployment rate in the U.S. worsens or continues for a prolonged period, the demand to lease office and industrial space may decline. Reductions in tenant demand to lease space are likely to result in reduced occupancy and rents at our properties. Many of our operating costs, such as utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, etc., are fixed. If our rents decline our income and cash flow available for distribution will decline and we may become unable to maintain our current rate of distributions to shareholders. Financial markets are still recovering from a period of disruption and recession, and we are unable to predict if the economy will continue to improve. The financial markets are still recovering from a recession, which created volatile market conditions, resulted in a decrease in availability of business credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. While the markets showed signs of stabilization in 2009 and improvement in 2010 and 2011, it remains unclear when the economy will fully recover to pre-recession levels. Continued weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants and could impact the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we are generally not able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund new acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. 38 Table of Contents We are currently dependent upon economic conditions in our six core markets: Metro Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Oahu, Hawaii; Metro Chicago, Illinois; Metro Denver, Colorado; Australia and Metro Washington, DC. Approximately 41.6% of our revenues in fiscal year 2011 were derived from properties located in our six core markets: Metro Philadelphia, PA; Oahu, Hawaii; Metro Chicago, IL; Metro Denver, CO; Australia and Metro Washington, DC. A continued slowing in economic conditions in these markets will likely result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties. A significant economic downturn in one or more of these areas could adversely affect our results of operations. We face significant competition. All of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located and more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners leasing available space at lower effective rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Also, we face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, and this competition may subject us to the following risks: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including other REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in our business; and •competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price we must pay to acquire properties, especially as access to debt capital becomes more readily available and lending terms become more lenient. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our term loan and revolving credit facility would adversely affect our business and may prevent our paying distributions to you. Both our term loan and revolving credit facility include various conditions to our borrowing and various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our term loan or our revolving credit facility at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under these instruments, our lenders may demand immediate payment. Any default under our term loan or our revolving credit facility would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our securities to materially decline and may prevent our paying distributions to our shareholders. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our securities. Interest rates are currently at historically low levels and may increase. There are three principal ways that increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our securities: •Funds borrowed under our term loan and revolving credit facility and certain of our other debt bear interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $657.0 million of debt outstanding at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions. 39 Table of Contents •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. •We expect to pay regular distributions on our shares. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. Changes in the government's requirements for leased space may adversely affect us. Approximately 2% of our total rents pursuant to existing leases as of December 31, 2011, come from government tenants. Many of our leases with government agencies allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated term expires with little or no liability. Historically, our government tenants have only rarely exercised lease termination rights and have regularly renewed leases. Nonetheless, for fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or otherwise, some or all of our government tenants may decide to vacate our properties. If a significant number of such terminations occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to pay regular distributions to shareholders may be jeopardized. Our acquisitions may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates acquisitions of additional properties. We cannot assure investors that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating costs for acquisitions may be higher than we anticipate and acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our property acquisitions may cause us to experience losses. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. Various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project. 40 Table of Contents The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase, but we do not expect the direct impact of these increases to be material to our results of operations because the increased costs either would be the responsibility of our tenants directly or in large part may be passed through by us to our tenants as additional lease payments. Although we do not believe it is likely in the foreseeable future, laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •increased supply of similar properties in our markets; •leases which are not renewed at expiration and may be relet at lower rents; •defaults and bankruptcies by our tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; and •asbestos/lead/mold related liabilities and costs of containment or removal and other environmental hazards at our properties for which we may be liable, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, adjacent properties or other parties. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had $3.6 billion in debt outstanding, which was 50.1% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture, revolving credit facility and term loan permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, tenant and lease data. Some of these systems are owned by RMR. We and RMR purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We and RMR rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber 41 Table of Contents attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing changes. Our declaration of trust or bylaws prohibit any shareholder other than RMR and its affiliates from owning directly and by attribution more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares. These provisions may assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC. However, these provisions may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be considered beneficial by some shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year and, in each case, until a successor is elected and qualifies, which could delay a change in our control; •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of Trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of, and various requirements that must be satisfied in order for, our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •the fact that only the chief executive officer, a majority of the Independent Trustees, the Board of Trustees or the holders of a majority of our shares entitled to vote at such meeting may call shareholder meetings; •because of our ownership of AIC, we are an insurance holding company under applicable state law; accordingly, anyone who intends to solicit proxies for a person to serve as one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to adopt certain amendments to our declaration of trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or 42 Table of Contents decrease the number of shares of any class or series, and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our shares or any new class of shares created by our Board of Trustees. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for any of our shares they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust and indemnity contracts require us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our declaration of trust or bylaws or by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnity contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with GOV, SNH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with GOV, SNH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for 43 Table of Contents these disputes in courts against GOV, SNH, RMR or our Trustees or officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our securities likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Similarly, our Australian operations benefit from locally available tax concessions which require us to satisfy complex requirements as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have operated, and are operating, in compliance with the requirements for these Australian tax concessions. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the local tax authority will agree. If we cease to be eligible for these Australian tax concessions, then we may be subject to material amounts of Australian income taxes and the value of our securities likely would decline; in addition, we could be precluded from requalifying for these Australian tax concessions again. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by U.S. corporations to individual stockholders is 15% through 2012. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends could cause investors to perceive that investment in REITs is less attractive than investment in non-REIT entities that pay dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. Risks Related to Our Relationship with RMR and its Affiliates We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available 44 Table of Contents to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR, and as a result our expenses may increase. Our management structure and our manager's other activities may create conflicts of interest or create the perception of conflicts of interest. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as making our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our individual operating activities and investments, but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy serves as President, Chief Executive Officer and a director, of RMR. Adam Portnoy is also our President. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other companies managed by RMR. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies managed by RMR. Such equity ownership and positions by our trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. RMR also acts as the manager for three other NYSE-listed REITs: SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; and GOV, which owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including Five Star, which operates senior living communities, including independent living and congregate care communities, assisted living communities, nursing homes and hospitals, TA, which operates and franchises travel centers, and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels. Additionally, if and when our subsidiary, SIR, completes its IPO, we expect SIR to enter into management agreements with RMR. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and RMR's other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us, SNH and GOV, and if its offering is completed, SIR, may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements with RMR were negotiated between affiliated parties and may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if negotiated between unaffiliated parties. We pay RMR business management fees based in part upon the historical cost of our investments (including acquisition costs) which at any time may be more or less than the fair market value thereof, plus an incentive fee based upon increases in our funds from operations, as defined in our business management agreement with RMR. We also pay RMR property management fees based in part upon the gross rents we collect from tenants and the cost of construction we incur. For more information, see "Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties, to undertake unnecessary construction activities or to overpay for acquisitions or construction. These arrangements may also encourage RMR to discourage our sales of properties. Our management agreements were negotiated between affiliated parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been were they negotiated on an arm's length basis between unaffiliated parties. 45 Table of Contents Our management agreements with RMR may discourage our change of control. Termination of our management agreements with RMR would be a default under our revolving credit facility and our term loan unless approved by a majority of our lenders. RMR can terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our management agreements may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your shares. Provisions in our transaction agreements with other RMR managed entities and our management agreements with RMR may restrict our investment activities and create conflicts of interest or the perception of conflicts of interest. RMR's management agreements with us restrict our ability to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of another business now or in the future managed by RMR. In addition, RMR has discretion to determine whether a particular investment opportunity is within our investment focus or that of another business managed by RMR. Under our management agreements with RMR, we have also agreed to first offer any property within the principal investment focus of another REIT to which RMR provides management services to such REIT prior to entering into any sale or other disposition arrangement with respect to such property. In addition, our transaction agreements with SNH and GOV have, and we expect our transaction agreement with SIR, which we may enter into with SIR if its offering occurs, to have, restrictions on our right to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of those other businesses. As a result of these contractual provisions, we have limited ability to invest in properties that are within the investment focus of other businesses managed by RMR. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease properties to any particular tenant, but our management agreements afford RMR discretion to determine which leasing opportunities to present to us or to other businesses managed by RMR. There is no assurance that any conflicts created by these agreements will be resolved in our favor. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention, even if the allegations are not substantiated. We may experience losses from our business dealings with Affiliates Insurance Company. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, SNH, GOV and three other companies to which RMR provides management services each own approximately 14.3% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Additionally, if and when SIR completes its IPO, we expect that SIR will also invest in AIC and participate in this combined insurance program. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to 46 Table of Contents improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. These beneficial financial results may not occur, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved, and we may experience losses from these dealings. Risks Related to Our Securities Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility and term loan; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our subsidiaries had $632.3 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the real estate industry generally. Conversion of our series D preferred shares will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of our series D preferred shares, including a conversion upon exercise of a "fundamental change" (as such term is defined in the applicable articles supplementary), will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of the series D preferred shares may encourage short selling 47 Table of Contents by market participants because the conversion of the series D preferred shares could depress the price of our common shares or for other reasons. There is no assurance that we will continue to make distributions. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur; •our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements and our debt indenture; and •any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including, but not limited to, requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, limitations in our revolving credit facility, term loan and public debt covenants, the availability of debt and equity capital to us, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, and our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions or regarding the form of distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by two rating agencies. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements. Risks Related to Investing in Foreign Countries We are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in other countries. We conduct a portion of our business in Australia since our acquisition in October 2010 of CWH Australia Trust, formerly known as MacarthurCook Industrial Property Fund, an Australian listed property trust that owned at the time ten industrial properties. We also acquired an office property in Sydney, Australia in December 2010. As of December 31, 2011, we owned 11 properties with 1.8 million square feet in various locations in Australia. Circumstances and developments related to these international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; •currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •the impact of country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and •foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries. 48 Table of Contents Although we have committed significant resources to manage our Australian business activities, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our foreign business, our non-U.S. investments could produce losses. The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have pursued, and may continue to pursue, growth opportunities in Australia where the U.S. dollar is not the national currency. At December 31, 2011, approximately 4.6% of our total assets were invested in Australian dollars, and we do not currently borrow in Australian dollars or enter currency derivative contracts to mitigate any foreign currency risk. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the Australian and U.S. dollars. More specifically, a significant change in the value of the Australian dollar may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position in the future. In the future, we may try to mitigate this foreign currency risk by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in Australian dollars and, on occasion and when deemed appropriate, using derivative contracts. However, we have no present intention to do so, and if we engage in such mitigation strategies, we cannot assure you that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk would be successful. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 49 Table of Contents 