Item 1A. Risk Factors We are dependent on government contracts for the majority of our revenue, and a reduction or delay in spending by government agencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. Contracts with agencies of the United States government and various state and local governments represented approximately 94% of our revenue in fiscal year 2009, with only 6% of our revenue coming from commercial sources. Therefore, the majority of our revenue and the success of our business are materially dependent on contracts with governmental agencies. Companies engaged in government contracting are subject to certain unique business risks not shared by the general commercial sector. Among these risks are: • a competitive procurement process with no guaranty of being awarded contracts; • dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds; • policies and regulations that can be changed at any time by Congress or a presidential administration; • competing political priorities and changes in the political climate regarding funding and operations of the services; • changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs or requirements; • government contracts that are usually awarded for relatively short periods of time and are subject to renewal options in favor of the government; and • many contracts with Federal government agencies require annual funding and may be terminated at the agency’s discretion. 7 Following the award of a federal government contract, payment for the work is dependent on congressional appropriations of the funds necessary to complete the task. The Federal government contracting laws also provide that the United States government is to do business only with responsible contractors. Accordingly, Federal agencies have the authority under certain circumstances to suspend or debar a contractor from bidding on government contracts. A reduction or shift in spending priorities by Federal government agencies could limit or eliminate the continued funding of our existing government contracts. These reductions or shifts in spending, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our government contracts are subject to audit and potential reduction of costs and fees. Contracts with the Federal government and many other state and local governmental agencies are subject to audit by governmental agencies, which could result in the disallowance of certain fees and costs. These audits can result in the disallowance of significant costs and expenses if the auditing agency determines, in its discretion, that certain costs and expenses were not warranted or were excessive. Disallowance of costs and expenses, if pervasive or significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations; a violation of any such law or regulation could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor. We must comply with and are affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we transact business with our government clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Even though we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our personnel or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or improper activities. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor and could cause our reputation to suffer serious harm. Since we depend on federal, state and local governments for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and financial condition. Our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate any potential profits. Government contracts are typically awarded through a heavily regulated procurement process. Some government contracts are offered to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition and pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure may require us to seek to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amounts of costs we anticipate, our profitability on these contracts will be negatively impacted. Further, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract if a competitor is selected or because of certain government policies. Robust enforcement of regulations is important to our financial success. Our business is materially dependent on the continued enforcement by local, state and federal governments of various environmental regulations. From time to time, depending on political pressures, local, state and federal agencies relax environmental clean-up standards to promote economic growth and to discourage industrial businesses from relocating. Any relaxation in clean-up standards impacts our ability to secure additional contracting work with such agencies or with other federal agencies that operate or manage contaminated property. Further, in a period of relaxed environmental standards, private industry may be less willing to allocate funds to consulting services designed to prevent or remediate environmental problems. 8 A large portion of our backlog is subject to cancellation and adjustments which makes backlog an uncertain indicator of future operating results. Our funded backlog was approximately $57 million as of June 26, 2009. Funded backlog represents orders for goods and services for which firm contractual commitments have been received. Such contractual commitments may take the form of a signed contract, a written task order under a large contract vehicle, a master contract or other types of written authorization, including change orders to existing written agreements. In the case of contracts with governments or governmental agencies amounts are included in funded backlog when the firm contractual commitment is supported by funding that has been appropriated and authorized for expenditure. Our total contract backlog was $735 million as of June 26, 2009. Total contract backlog includes two components: funded backlog and expected backlog. Expected backlog reflects management’s estimate of future revenue from existing written contracts, such as master contracts with large corporations and large federal, state and municipal multi-year contracts for which funding for work or tasks has not yet been authorized in writing by the other contracting party. The amount of expected backlog included in total contract backlog is not exact or guaranteed; however, it represents what we reasonably believe, based upon subjective factors such as past experience with the particular clients, the type of work and present budgetary expectations and information about the clients’ needs and other business circumstances, will become funded backlog over the next five to seven years. These estimates are based upon the information in our possession at the time the estimate is made. If Versar’s management does not accurately assess each of these factors, or if it does not include all of the variables that affect the revenue it will recognize from existing contracts in the estimating process, the potential value of these contracts, and accordingly, reported total contract backlog, will not reflect the actual revenue received from contracts and task orders. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will ultimately receive amounts included in total contract backlog that are not included in funded backlog or that total contract backlog includes all revenue that we may ultimately receive under contracts existing at any one time. Further, many factors that affect the scheduling of projects could alter the actual timing of revenue on projects included in total contract backlog. There is also the possibility that contracts could be adjusted or cancelled in a manner that would affect the realization of revenues reflected in backlog. The failure to realize all amounts in backlog could adversely affect our revenues and margins. Due to these uncertainties, our funded backlog and our total contract backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of our future earnings. We could face potential liability for failure to properly design remediation. A part of our business involves the design and implementation of remediation at environmental clean-up sites. If we fail to properly design and build a remediation system or if someone claims that we did, we could face expensive litigation and settlement costs. If we failed to successfully defend against such a lawsuit, it could materially affect our business. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims. Our engagements often involve complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients, and to effectively manage the projects and deploy appropriate resources in a timely manner. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual milestones, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our client’s expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may exceed the fees we derive from performance. Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various environmental laws and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we sometimes may assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We are not able to predict the magnitude of any such liabilities. 9 We obtain insurance from third parties to cover our potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. Economic downturn. Because of the present worldwide economic downturn and increasing competition, the Company may not be able to win all the competitive work it expects or has in the past. This could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance while this situation exists. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We, from time to time, enter joint venture agreements and other contractual arrangements with outside partners to jointly bid on and execute a particular project. The success of these joint projects depends in part on the satisfactory performance of the contractual obligations by our partners. If any of our partners fail to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services to complete projects, increasing our cost on those projects. If we are unable to adequately address a partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation or reduced profits. We operate in highly competitive industries. The markets for many of our services are highly competitive. There are numerous professional architectural, engineering, construction management, and environmental consulting firms, and other organizations which offer many of the same services offered by us. We compete with many companies, many of which have greater resources than us and we cannot assure you that such competitors will not substantially increase the resources devoted to their business in a manner competitive with the services provided by us. Competitive factors include reputation, performance, price, geographic location and availability of technically skilled personnel. In addition, we face competition from the use by our clients of in-house environmental, engineering and other staff. Our quarterly and annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and operating results have and may continue to fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: • the seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the Federal government, and the spending patterns of our private sector clients; • employee hiring and utilization rates in the United States and internationally; • the number and significance of client engagements commenced and completed during the period; • delays incurred in connection with an engagement because of weather or other factors; • ability to work within foreign countries’ regulations, tax requirements and obligations; • business and financial risk working in foreign countries; • the ability of clients to terminate engagements without penalties; • the creditworthiness and solvency of clients; • the size and scope of engagements; 10 • the ability to perform contracts within budget or contractual limitations; • the timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; • threatened or pending litigation matters; • reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; • winning re-bids of our existing large government contracts; • general economic and political conditions; and • volatility of currencies in foreign countries. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in net losses and have a material adverse affect on our stock price. We are highly dependent on key personnel. Our business is managed by a small number of key management and operating and professional personnel, the loss of certain of whom could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The market for these professionals is competitive and we believe that our ability to manage planned growth successfully will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 