Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. The financial markets are currently in a period of disruption and recession, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. The financial markets are currently experiencing very difficult conditions and volatility. These market conditions have resulted in a decrease in availability of corporate credit and have led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. A continued recession or a depression could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our tenants, which would impact the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts or to grow. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to shareholders and we generally cannot retain sufficient income from operations to repay our debts, to invest in our properties or fund our acquisitions. Accordingly, our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts and to fund new investments. We believe we will be able to raise additional debt and equity capital at reasonable costs to refinance our debts at or prior to their maturities, to maintain our properties and to invest at yields that exceed our cost of capital. However, at present there is a significant contraction in financial liquidity globally. In these circumstances, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not assured; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Our business and growth strategy is not assured and may fail. If the current recession continues or worsens, the occupancy and rents at our properties may decline. The U.S. economy is currently in recession. There are several indications that general economic conditions may continue to worsen before they begin to improve. We do not know when economic conditions will improve. If the current recession worsens or continues for a prolonged period the demand to lease commercial and industrial space will decline. Reductions in tenant demand to lease space are likely to result in reduced occupancy and rents at our properties. Many of our operating costs, such as utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, certain management fees, etc. are fixed. If our rents decline our income and cash flow available for distribution will decline and we may become unable to maintain our current rate of distributions to shareholders. We are currently dependent upon economic conditions in our five core markets: Metro Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Oahu, Hawaii; Metro Washington, DC; Metro Boston, Massachusetts and Southern California. Approximately 42% of our revenues in fiscal year 2008 were derived from properties located in our five core markets: Metro Philadelphia, PA; Oahu, HI; Metro Washington, DC; Metro Boston, MA and Southern California. A downturn in economic conditions in these markets could result in reduced demand from tenants for our properties. A significant economic downturn in one or more of these areas could adversely affect our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We face significant competition. All of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located and more attractive to tenants. Many competing properties may have lower occupancy than our properties, which may result in their owners being willing to lease available space at lower prices than we offer space for rent at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. In addition, we face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors and this competition may subject us to the following risks: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, private investment funds and others; and •competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price we must pay to acquire properties. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our shares. On December 31, 2008, we had approximately $401 million of debt outstanding at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost to refinance existing debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions to you. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby limiting our ability to sell properties to raise capital or realize gains or obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. We pay regular distributions to our common and preferred shareholders; when interest rates available to investors rise, the market prices of dividend paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of your ownership of our shares may decline. Changes in the government's requirements for leased space may adversely affect us. Approximately 14% of our total rents pursuant to signed leases as of December 31, 2008 come from government tenants. If the proposed sale of securities by our subsidiary, GOV, is completed on currently proposed terms, approximately 10% of our pro forma total rents received in 2008 would be directly or indirectly from governments, including rents from properties which we continue to own and our 49.9% indirect ownership of GOV. Many of our leases with government agencies allow the tenants to vacate the leased premises before the stated term expires with little or no liability. Historically, our government tenants have only rarely exercised lease termination rights and have regularly renewed leases. Nonetheless, for fiscal policy reasons, security concerns or otherwise some or all of our government tenants may decide to vacate our properties. If a significant number of such terminations occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to pay regular distributions to shareholders may be jeopardized. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium for your shares or prevent you from implementing beneficial changes. Our declaration of trust or bylaws prohibit any shareholder, other than RMR and its affiliates, from owning more than 9.8% of any class or series of our outstanding shares. This provision of the declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC. However, this provision will also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and under 32 Table of Contents Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our trustees into three classes; with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change in our control; •required qualifications needed for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our trustees be "managing trustees" and other trustees be "independent trustees"; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business before a meeting of shareholders; •the two-thirds shareholder vote required for removal of trustees; •the authority of our board of trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •the fact that only the chief executive officer, a majority of the independent trustees, the board of trustees or the holders of a majority of our shares entitled to vote at such meeting may call shareholder meetings; and •the authority of our board of trustees to adopt certain amendments or supplements to our declaration of trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares, to create new classes or series of certain shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or decrease the number of shares of any class, and to classify or reclassify any unissued preferred shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our preferred shares or any new class of preferred shares created by our board of trustees. We have a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for shares they own. The loss of our tax status as a REIT or tax authority challenges could have significant adverse consequences to us and reduce the market price of our securities. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, our continued qualification as a REIT is dependent upon our compliance with complex provisions of the IRC, for which there are available only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. We believe we have operated, and are operating, as a REIT in compliance with the IRC. However, we cannot assure that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. If we cease to be a REIT, we would violate a covenant in our credit facility, our ability to raise capital would be adversely affected, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our securities would likely decline. Acquisitions that we make may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates additional acquisitions. We cannot assure you that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management 33 Table of Contents attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •increased supply of similar properties in our markets; •property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; •defaults and bankruptcies by our tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •leases which are not renewed at expiration or for property which may be relet at lower rents; •costs that may be incurred relating to maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; •asbestos related liabilities and costs of containment or removal; and •other environmental hazards at our properties for which we may be liable, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, adjacent land or other parties. Our business dealings with our managing trustees and related persons may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and services which we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the types of properties that are proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. Our board of trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our properties but does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our managing trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our board of trustees, including our independent trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of various companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. We cannot assure you that the provisions in our declaration of trust or bylaws adequately address potential conflicts of interest or that such actual or potential conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. We pay RMR fees based in part upon the historical cost of our investments, the gross rents we collect from tenants and the costs of construction we incur at our properties which are supervised by RMR, plus an incentive fee based upon increases in our funds from operations (as defined in our business management agreement). Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties and discourage sales of properties by us or to undertake unnecessary construction activities. RMR also acts as the manager for two other publicly traded REITs: Senior Housing, which owns senior living and healthcare properties; and Hospitality Properties, which owns hotels and travel centers. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including: Five Star Quality Care, Inc., or Five Star, which operates senior living 34 Table of Contents communities, including independent living and congregate care communities, assisted living communities, nursing homes and hospitals; and TravelCenters of America LLC, or TravelCenters, which operates and franchises travel centers. During 2008 we entered agreements to sell certain medical office buildings to Senior Housing. If and when our subsidiary, GOV, becomes majority owned by public investors, we expect GOV to enter into management agreements with RMR. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. A termination of our business management agreement with RMR is a default under our revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our business management and property management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your securities. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with trustees, related persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. At December 31, 2008, we had $2.9 billion in debt outstanding, which was approximately 50% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross-defaults, these debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and may have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, at December 31, 2008, our subsidiaries had $447.7 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, also effectively subordinated to our secured debt. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes or notes we may issue in the future after a certain amount of time. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive 35 Table of Contents from the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return we previously paid on the redeemed notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for quotation through any automated quotation system. We can give no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market does develop, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the real estate industry generally. Conversion of our series D preferred shares will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of our series D preferred shares, including a conversion upon exercise of a "fundamental change" (as such term is defined in the applicable articles supplementary) will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of the series D preferred shares may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the series D preferred shares could depress the price of our common shares or for other reasons. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our board of trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect market value of our common and preferred shares and our ability to make distributions to you. We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy on favorable terms. Because we are externally managed, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the management fees we pay RMR, and as a result our earnings and cash flows may decline. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland 36 Table of Contents law, our trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust requires us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. We have similar obligations under individual indemnification agreements with each of our trustees and executive officers. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Provisions in RMR's management agreements with us and with other entities managed by RMR and in transaction agreements between us and certain of those entities may restrict our investing activities and create conflicts of interest. RMR's management agreements with us and with other entities managed by RMR, in effect, restrict our ability to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of another business now or in the future managed by RMR. RMR will have discretion to determine whether a particular investment opportunity is within our investment focus or that of another business managed by RMR. In addition, our transaction agreement with Senior Housing has, and we expect the transaction agreement which we may enter into with GOV if its offering occurs to have, restrictions on our right to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of the other business. As a result of these contractual provisions, we have limited ability to invest in properties that are within the investment focus of other businesses managed by RMR. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease owned properties to any particular tenant and, as a result, we may compete with other businesses managed by RMR for tenants. Our management agreements afford RMR discretion to determine which leasing opportunities to present to us or to other businesses managed by RMR. Accordingly, we may compete with other businesses managed by RMR for investments in properties that are not within the investment focus of us or another business managed by RMR and for tenants. There is no assurance that any conflicts of interest created by such competition will be resolved in our favor. There is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. We intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However, our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described herein, including the current U.S. recession and constraints in the U.S. capital markets and their impact on our business. Our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and our debt indenture. All our distributions are made at the discretion of our board of trustees and the timing and amount of our future distributions will depend upon our earnings, our cash flows, our anticipated cash flows, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT tax status, our ability to access capital and such other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. Recent IRS rulings have expanded the ability of REITs to pay distributions in shares. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions or regarding the form of distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. 37 Table of Contents Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by Moody's Investors' Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 38 Table of Contents 