RISK FACTORS Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to the activities of Related Fund Management, LLC, Corvex Management LP, or together, Related/Corvex The Related/Corvex consent solicitation to remove of all of our Trustees without cause and related activities may disrupt our business and operations, give rise to preferred shareholder conversion rights and events of default under certain material agreements, affect our ability to pay distributions, repurchase shares, borrow money and execute our business plan, and have other effects which may adversely affect us. If our entire Board of Trustees is removed as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation, such removal may, among other things, disrupt our business and operations, give rise to preferred shareholder conversion rights and events of default under certain material agreements, affect our ability to pay distributions, repurchase shares, borrow money and execute our business plan, and have other effects which may adversely affect us. For example: •considering and responding to the Related/Corvex actions and allegations has been, and may continue to be, disruptive, costly and time consuming, and a significant distraction for our management; •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement and may also constitute an event of default under certain mortgage loans, which could have material adverse consequences, including triggering limitations under our loan agreements on our ability to pay distributions, repurchase shares or borrow money, possible acceleration of amounts outstanding under our loan agreements and possible cross defaults under, and acceleration of, our other debt obligations; •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation would constitute a fundamental change under our 6.5% series D cumulative convertible preferred shares giving holders of such shares the option to convert these shares into common shares at a ratio based on 98% of the average closing market price for a period before such removal is effective, unless we repurchase these shares for their par value plus accrued and unpaid distributions; •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation may constitute a "change of control" under certain of our other material agreements, which could have material adverse consequences under such agreements; •certain actions proposed by Related/Corvex, such as increasing our debt and paying distributions to shareholders or repurchasing our equity securities may result in the downgrading of our debt ratings and loss of our investment grade debt rating; •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees and the calling of a special meeting for the election of replacement Trustees will leave us without any Trustees to manage our business and affairs and to authorize the payment of future distributions to our common and preferred shareholders until a special meeting is held and replacement Trustees are elected and qualified; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, including, but not limited to, uncertainties related to the composition of our Board of Trustees and our management, as well as our future business plans, may result in the loss of potential business, opportunities and loss of bargaining power when leasing, disposing or acquiring properties; •the termination of our business or property management agreements with RMR and internalization of our management, as proposed by Related/Corvex, may lead to significantly increased costs and expenses and material disruption to our business; 35 Table of Contents •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation may adversely affect our ability to create additional value for our shareholders by effectively executing our business plan; •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation may make it difficult for us to comply with federal securities laws, including our obligation to file periodic reports and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, which may affect our liquidity; •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation may give rise to our violation of the rules and regulations of the SEC requiring that we have an independent Audit Committee and certain NYSE continued listing requirements, which may result in the SEC or NYSE taking enforcement action against us, including action by the NYSE to delist our common shares and other publicly traded securities; •the actions taken by Related/Corvex have created an environment conducive to follow-on litigation, which serves as a further distraction to our management and may require us to incur significant costs. Costs associated with the Related/Corvex activities, including their consent solicitation, related actions and litigation, have been, and may continue to be, substantial. Further, if determined adversely, such litigation could materially and adversely affect us; and •the removal of our entire Board of Trustees as a result of the Related/Corvex consent solicitation may facilitate the acquisition of control of us or other transactions on terms that are not in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders. You should also not assume that any actions or proposed actions described by Related/Corvex in the materials they have filed with the SEC will be taken, and you should not necessarily ascribe incremental value to our common shares as a result of the possibility of such actions. Additional information about the risks which may arise from the activities by Related/Corvex is included in, and incorporated herein by reference to, our Definitive Consent Revocation Statement filed with the SEC on Schedule 14A on January 29, 2014. We continue to review the possible implications of the Related/Corvex activities and may identify additional risks and uncertainties created by the Related/Corvex actions. We are a party to numerous legal proceedings, which could distract our Board of Trustees and management, affect the Related/Corvex consent solicitation and/or adversely affect us. As noted below in Item 3 "Legal Proceedings", we, along with RMR, our officers and current and former Trustees, have been named as defendants in a number of complaints seeking monetary damages and declaratory and injunctive relief, including, among other things, complaints seeking to invalidate certain provisions of our bylaws and challenging the equity offering we completed in 2013. Additional claims may be filed against us in connection with any action we may or may not take, including any equity or debt financing we may undertake, any sales of our assets, past and future amendments to our bylaws, our Board of Trustees' response to actions by Related/Corvex or others and other actions by our Board of Trustees and by us. The results of litigation are difficult to predict and we can provide no assurance that our legal conclusions or positions will be upheld. Moreover, claims of this nature present a risk of protracted litigation, incurrence of significant attorneys' fees, costs and expenses, and diversion of management's attention from the operation of our business. Adverse rulings in the legal proceedings noted in Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition and cause substantial reputational harm and/or a decline in the market price of our shares. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify our present or former Trustees or officers who are made or threatened to be made parties to a legal proceeding by reason of their service in that capacity and have also agreed to indemnify RMR for claims brought against RMR in its capacity as our business and 36 Table of Contents property manager. We do not have insurance to cover certain of these potential claims and indemnification obligations and may incur significant costs in connection with these legal proceedings or our indemnification obligations. Risks Related to Our Business If the current unemployment rate in the United States worsens, the occupancy and rents at our properties may decline. If the current unemployment rate in the United States worsens, the demand to lease office and industrial space may decline. Reductions in tenant demand to lease space are likely to result in reduced occupancy and rents at our properties. Many of our operating costs, such as utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, etc., are fixed. If our rents decline our income and cash flow available for distribution will decline and we may become unable to maintain our current rate of distributions to our shareholders. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and while the economy grew modestly in 2013, we do not know if the economy will continue to improve or if it may decline. As a result, some of our tenants may become unable to pay our rents and the values of our properties may decline. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and while the economy grew modestly in 2013, we do not know if the economy will continue to improve or if it may decline. If current general economic conditions persist or worsen, our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to meet our obligations and make or sustain distributions to our shareholders may be materially and adversely affected, including as follows: •our tenants may become unable or unwilling to pay our rents; •the demand for leased office and industrial space across the country may decline, and the rents we can charge when leases are renewed or new leases are entered may be lower than the rents we now charge; •we may be unable to lease our properties which become vacant as our leases expire or if our tenants default; •the market values of our properties may decline; and •access to capital markets may become difficult, expensive or impossible, and our ability to obtain debt or equity capital to fund our operations, meet our obligations, purchase additional properties or otherwise conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected or eliminated. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. 37 Table of Contents We are currently dependent upon economic conditions in our two core business segments: CBD properties and suburban properties. For the quarter ended December 31, 2013, excluding properties classified in discontinued operations, we received approximately 69.3% of our total revenues from properties classified in our CBD segment and approximately 30.7% of our total revenues from properties classified in our suburban segment. Unless the economic conditions return to pre-recession levels, particularly in our suburban segment, we may experience reduced demand from tenants for our properties. A significant economic downturn in one or both of these business segments could adversely affect our results of operations. We face significant competition. Substantially all of our properties face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. In addition, we face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies. Because of competition, we may be unable to, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price to, acquire a desired property. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and management resources than we have. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants our rents may decline and our expenses may increase and changes in tenants' requirements for leased space may adversely affect us. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants we may receive less rent than we currently receive. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain tenants. When we lease to new tenants or renew leases we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or tenant inducements. Many of our leases are for properties that are specially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In general, tenants have been increasingly seeking to increase their space utilization under their leases, including reducing the amount of square footage per employee at leased properties, which may reduce the demand for leased space. If a significant number of such events occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to make regular distributions to our shareholders may be jeopardized. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements would adversely affect our business and may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders. Our revolving credit facility agreement includes various conditions to borrowings and our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements include various financial and other covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain certain minimum debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreement, the lenders may demand immediate 38 Table of Contents payment and lenders under our revolving credit facility may elect not to make further borrowings available. Additionally, during the continuance of any event of default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreement, we will be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions on our shares. Any default under our revolving credit facility or term loan agreements would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our shares to materially decline. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our current revolving credit facility and term loan agreements. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares. Interest rates have recently risen from their historical lows but remain below historical long term averages. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares, including in the following ways: •Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility agreement and term loan agreement and certain of our other debt bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, ability to pay principal and interest on debt, cost of refinancing debt when it becomes due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept. •We expect to make regular distributions to our shareholders. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. Our sales strategy may not be successful. An element of our business plan involves the sale of certain of our properties. We cannot assure that we will be able to find attractive sale opportunities or that any sale will be completed in a timely manner, if at all. Our ability to sell certain of our properties, and the prices we receive upon a sale, may be affected by many factors, and we may be unable to execute our sales strategy. In particular, these factors could arise from weakness in or the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, the number of prospective purchasers, the number of competing properties on the market, a decline in current national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. For these reasons, we may be unable to sell certain of our properties for an extended period of time or at all, and our business plan to sell certain of our properties may not succeed and we may incur expenses and reputational harm. 39 Table of Contents Our acquisitions may not be successful. An element of our business plan involves the acquisition of additional properties. We cannot assure that we will be able to consummate attractive acquisition opportunities or that acquisitions we make will be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating costs for acquisitions may be higher than we anticipate and acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us losses. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, properties they own, and we cannot assure that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to governmental agencies or other parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. Certain of our properties are used or have been used for industrial purposes. Though we have reviewed these and our other properties for potential environmental liabilities and have established a reserve for potential costs that may be incurred as a result of environmental contamination, we cannot assure that we have identified all potential environmental liabilities or that our reserve will be sufficient to cover any costs we may incur relating to environmental matters. Some of these properties contain, or may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that contain, or may have contained, underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of these tanks creates the potential for the release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances onto our properties. In addition, certain of our properties are on sites upon which or are adjacent to or near other properties upon which others, including former owners or tenants, have engaged, or may in the future engage, in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. Except in limited instances, we do not have any insurance designated to limit any losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions which are not caused by an insured event, such as, for example, fire or flood. We do not believe that there are environmental conditions at any of our properties that will materially and adversely affect us. However, we cannot assure that environmental conditions present at our properties or costs we may be required to incur in the future to address environmental contamination will not materially and adversely affect us. 40 Table of Contents We believe any asbestos in our buildings is contained in accordance with current regulations, and we have no current plans to remove any such asbestos. If we remove the asbestos or renovate or demolish these properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase in the future. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Impact of Climate Change" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. In addition to the risks related to environmental hazards and climate change, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; •property and casualty losses; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; •legislative and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; and •litigation incidental to our business. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had $3.0 billion in debt outstanding, which was 47.4% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility and term loan agreements permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential tenant information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, 41 Table of Contents including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. If such a proposal is adopted, many companies that account for certain leases on an "off balance sheet" basis would be required to account for such leases "on balance sheet." This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. Risks Related to Our Securities We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders, and distributions we may make may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur; •our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements and our debt indenture; and •any distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including, but not limited to, our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our funds from operations, or FFO, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, and our cash available for distribution, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements and senior notes indenture), tax law requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or 42 Table of Contents will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Most of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility and term loan but none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, our subsidiaries had $934.5 million of debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. We cannot assure that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the real estate industry generally. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Our senior notes and our preferred shares are rated by two rating agencies. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred shares at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements. Conversion of our series D preferred shares or our series E preferred shares will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. The conversion of some or all of our series D preferred shares or our series E preferred shares, including a conversion upon exercise of a "fundamental change" or "change of control," respectively, as such terms are defined in the applicable articles supplementary, will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of the series D preferred shares and the series E preferred shares may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the series D preferred shares or the series E preferred shares could depress the price of our common shares or for other reasons. Risks Related to Investing in Foreign Countries We are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in other countries. We have conducted a portion of our business in Australia since our acquisition in October 2010 of CWH Australia Trust, an Australian listed property trust, and, as of December 31, 2013, we owned 11 properties (11 buildings) with approximately 1.8 million square feet in various locations in Australia. Circumstances and developments related to these international operations that could negatively affect 43 Table of Contents our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors: •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; •currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •the impact of country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and •foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries. Although we have committed significant resources to manage our Australian business activities, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our foreign business, our non-U.S. investments could produce losses. The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have pursued, and may continue to pursue, growth opportunities in Australia where the U.S. dollar is not the national currency. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 4.3% of our total assets were invested in Australian dollars, and we do not currently borrow in Australian dollars or enter currency derivative contracts to mitigate any foreign currency risk. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the Australian and U.S. dollars. More specifically, a significant change in the value of the Australian dollar may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may try to mitigate this foreign currency risk by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in Australian dollars and, on occasion and when deemed appropriate, using derivative contracts. However, we have no present intention to do so, and if we engage in such mitigation strategies, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk would be successful. Risks Related to Our Relationship with RMR We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and execute our business plan. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contracts with RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, to identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions consistent with our business plan and to execute our financing strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming an internally managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with RMR may restrict our investment activities and may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our 44 Table of Contents operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry M. Portnoy and Adam D. Portnoy. In addition to managing CWH, RMR manages GOV, a publicly traded REIT that primarily owns buildings majority leased to government tenants throughout the United States, HPT, a publicly traded REIT that owns hotels and travel centers, SNH, a publicly traded REIT that primarily owns healthcare, senior living and medical office buildings, and SIR, a publicly traded REIT that is our former consolidated subsidiary and that primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant office and industrial properties throughout the United States and leased lands in Hawaii. RMR also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including Five Star, which operates senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers and convenience stores; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and to other companies to which it provides management services may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our management agreements were negotiated between related parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated between unrelated parties. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to those of ours, and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with other businesses managed by RMR. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. Adam Portnoy is also our President. Our Managing Trustees and two of our Independent Trustees are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other public companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also officers of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its related parties. Our management arrangements with RMR may discourage our change of control. A default under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements would occur if RMR ceases to act as our business manager and property manager, unless waived by our lenders holding two-thirds of the aggregate credit exposure under the applicable agreement. RMR is able to terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. We may be unable to duplicate, without considerable cost increases, the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR if we become internally managed or if we contract with other parties for management services. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares. 45 Table of Contents Provisions in our transaction agreements with other RMR managed entities or our management agreements with RMR may restrict our investment activities and create conflicts of interest or the perception of conflicts of interest. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to those of ours and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR. In addition, our transaction agreements with SNH and GOV also have restrictions on our right to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of those other businesses. As a result of these contractual provisions, we have limited ability to invest in properties that are within the investment focus of certain other businesses managed by RMR. These agreements do not restrict our ability, or the ability of other businesses managed by RMR, to lease properties to any particular tenant. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR, SIR, GOV, SNH, Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy and with other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. Related/Corvex have made conflicts of interest a theme of their campaign to remove all of our Trustees, without cause, and obtain control of the Company. Additionally, we are a party to numerous shareholder litigation, as noted below in Item 3 "Legal Proceedings", which may provoke further dissident shareholder activities. The Related/Corvex activities have resulted in, and future dissident shareholder activities may result in, substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR and six other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 12.5% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. 46 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our declaration of trust or bylaws prohibit any shareholder other than RMR, its affiliates and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. These provisions are intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, these provisions also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend and repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees; the fact that only our president, a majority of our Independent Trustees, our Board of Trustees or the holders of a majority of our common shares may call shareholder meetings; required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees", as defined in our governing documents; and the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. We also currently maintain a shareholder rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, unless the acquisition is approved by our Board of Trustees, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In 2013, our Board of Trustees announced that it planned to accelerate the expiration date of this rights agreement after resolution of our disputes with Related/Corvex, which has not yet occurred. Until this agreement expires, it may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder considers favorable. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland 47 Table of Contents law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our declaration of trust or bylaws or by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with SIR, GOV, SNH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with SIR, GOV, SNH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against SIR, GOV, SNH, RMR or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. 48 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our special tax statuses could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Similarly, our Australian operations benefit from locally available tax concessions which require us to satisfy complex requirements as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have operated, and are operating, in compliance with the requirements for these Australian tax concessions. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the local tax authority will agree. If we cease to be eligible for these Australian tax concessions, then we may be subject to material amounts of Australian income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline; in addition, we could be precluded from requalifying for these Australian tax concessions again. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to 49 Table of Contents borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. See "Business—Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a REIT" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets and operations through our taxable REIT subsidiaries or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 50 Table of Contents 