ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Dependence on Credit Facilities. We depend on various credit facilities with financial institutions to finance our purchase of contracts pending securitization. At June 30, 2009, we had two separate credit facilities that provide borrowing capacity of up to $1,840.4 million, as follows: (i) a master warehouse facility providing up to $1,090.4 million of receivables financing which matures in March 2010; and (ii) a medium term note facility providing $750.0 million of receivables financing which matures in October 2009. In March 2009, we amended and extended our master warehouse facility. The amendment, which was approved by all ten active lenders in the facility, reduced the size of the facility to $1,110.4 million from $2,245.0 million, and extended the revolving period to March 2010 from October 2009. In March 2010 when the revolving period ends, the outstanding balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until April 2011 when the remaining balance will be due and payable. We also amended certain covenants under the facility, including: (i) increasing the maximum rolling six-month annualized portfolio net loss ratio to 10.0% through October 2009, 12.0% through December 2009, 12.25% through March 2010 and 12.0% thereafter, (ii) removing the 364-day aging limitation on pledged receivables and (iii) lowering the minimum interest coverage requirement to 1.05 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, except for the September 2009, December 2009 and March 2010 quarters, when it is 0.75 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In conjunction with the amendment, the advance rate on the master warehouse facility declined immediately from approximately 85% to approximately 80% and will gradually decrease to approximately 68% by February 2010. In May 2009, we reduced the facility size to $1,090.4 million from $1,110.4 million and we further reduced the facility size in July 2009 to $1,000.0 million to align our borrowing capacity with our loan origination levels. Also in March 2009, we amended the rolling six-month annualized portfolio net loss ratio covenant in our medium term note facility to levels consistent with changes in the master warehouse facility. In October 2009, when the revolving period ends on this facility, the outstanding balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until October 2016 when any remaining amount will be due and payable. Additionally, we had the following two credit facilities at June 30, 2009 that support discontinued origination platforms: (i) a prime/near prime facility providing financing of higher credit quality receivables which has $250.4 million outstanding; and (ii) a leasing facility providing financing for our lease receivables which has $60.0 million outstanding. 13 Table of Contents In April 2009, the prime/near prime facility was amended to end the revolving period and the outstanding debt balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged. In June 2009, the lease warehouse facility was amended to end the revolving period and to provide for quarterly payments of approximately $20.0 million until April 2010 when the facility will be repaid in full. We cannot guarantee that any of these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates at reasonable terms or at all. The availability of these financing sources depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit and the availability of bank liquidity in general. If we are unable to extend or replace these facilities or arrange new credit facilities or other types of interim financing, we will have to curtail or suspend loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Our credit facilities generally contain a borrowing base or advance formula which requires us to pledge finance receivables in excess of the amounts which we can borrow under the facilities. We are also required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, the finance receivables pledged as collateral must be less than 31 days delinquent at periodic measurement dates. Accordingly, increases in delinquencies or defaults on pledged collateral resulting from weakened economic conditions, or due to our inability to execute securitization transactions or any other factor, would require us to pledge additional finance receivables to support the same borrowing levels and to replace delinquent or defaulted collateral. The pledge of additional finance receivables to support our credit facilities would adversely impact our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The current disruptions in the capital markets have caused banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit facilities, including execution of hedging arrangements, and require more collateral and higher pricing upon renewal of existing credit facilities, if such facilities are renewed at all. Accordingly, as our existing credit facilities mature, we may be required to provide more collateral in the form of finance receivables or cash to support borrowing levels which will affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. In addition, higher pricing would increase our cost of funds and adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, the credit facilities contain various covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these facilities. If the lenders elect to accelerate outstanding indebtedness under these agreements following the violation of any covenant, such actions may result in an event of default under our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. As of and subsequent to June 30, 2009, we were in violation of a covenant relating to a required interest rate hedge contained in our prime/near prime facility and such violation was cured and waived by the lenders in August 2009. Dependence on Securitization Program. General. Since December 1994, we have relied upon our ability to transfer receivables to securitization Trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of credit facilities and to purchase additional receivables. Accordingly, adverse changes in our asset-backed securities program or in the asset-backed securities market for automobile receivables in general have in the past, and could in the future, materially adversely affect our ability to purchase and securitize loans on a timely basis and upon terms acceptable to us. Any adverse change or delay would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We will continue to require the execution of securitization transactions in order to fund our future liquidity needs. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If these sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience on the receivables, breach of financial covenants or portfolio and pool performance measures, disruption of the asset-backed market, alteration or withdrawal of TALF or other government-backed programs or otherwise, we will be required to revise the scale of our business, including the possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Recent Conditions and Events. The asset-backed securities market, along with credit markets in general, continue to experience unprecedented volatility and disruption. Conditions in the asset-backed securities market, which began deteriorating in mid-2007 and were further weakened by the credit rating downgrades of the financial guaranty insurance providers, worsened significantly following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in September 2008. Over this time period, conditions in the asset-backed securities market have generally included increased risk premiums for issuers, limited investor demand for asset-backed securities, particularly those securities backed by sub-prime collateral, rating agency downgrades of asset-backed securities, and a general tightening of availability of credit. These conditions, which have increased our cost of funding and restricted our access to the asset-backed securities market, may continue or worsen in the future. In response to these market dislocations, the federal government has taken unprecedented action to inject capital into the financial system, including the implementation of TALF, in March 2009, and other programs. Under TALF, the FRBNY will lend up to $200 billion to holders of certain triple-A rated asset-backed securities backed by newly and recently originated consumer and small business loans, as well as commercial mortgage-backed securities, private-label residential mortgage-backed securities, and other asset-backed securities. The FRBNY will lend an amount equal to the market value of the asset-backed securities less a discount and will be secured at all times by the asset-backed securities. The triple-A rated securities in the AMCAR 2009-1 securitization were eligible for investors to utilize the Federal Reserve’s TALF program. While these government programs, specifically TALF, have helped stabilize the asset-backed securities market since implementation, there is no guarantee that these programs will continue to benefit the financial markets in general or us in particular. TALF is currently set to expire on March 31, 2010. In addition, we could also be adversely impacted if certain of our competitors are beneficiaries of certain of the government’s programs and we do not receive comparable assistance. The government may not continue to intervene in the financial markets, or any future or continued governmental intervention may not benefit the financial markets in general or us in particular. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in selling securities in the asset-backed securities market, at least in the near term, that our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our loan origination activities until the disruptions in the securitization markets subside or that the cost of any available funding will allow us to operate at profitable levels. Since we are highly dependent on the availability of the asset-backed securities market to finance our operations, continued disruptions in this market or adverse changes or delays in our ability to access this market would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Although we experienced sufficient investor demand for the securities we issued in our AMCAR 2009-1 securitization, reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities such as existed prior to the implementation of TALF could result in our having to hold auto loans until investor demand improves, but our capacity to hold auto loans is not unlimited. A reduced demand for our asset-backed securities could require us to reduce the amount of auto loans that we will purchase. Continued adverse market conditions could also result in increased costs and reduced margins earned in connection with our securitization transactions. Securitization Structures. We have historically utilized financial guaranty insurance policies provided by various monoline insurance providers in order to achieve triple-A ratings on the insured securities issued in the great majority of our securitization transactions. Financial guaranty insurance policies have historically enhanced the marketability of these transactions to investors in asset-backed securities. 15 Table of Contents The monoline insurers we have used in the past are facing financial stress and have received rating agency downgrades due to risk exposures on insurance policies that guarantee mortgage debt and related structured products and several of the monoline insurers we have utilized in the past have decided to no longer issue insurance policies for asset-backed securities. As a result, there is little demand for securities guaranteed by insurance, particularly securities backed by sub-prime collateral, and we do not anticipate utilizing this structure in the foreseeable future. In ten of our securitizations, in lieu of relying on a financial guaranty insurance policy, we have sold or retained subordinate asset-backed securities in order to provide credit enhancement for the senior asset-backed securities. Due to the diminished viability of financial guaranty insurance policies, we anticipate utilizing senior subordinated securitization structures for the foreseeable future. In a senior-subordinated securitization, we expect that the higher rated, or triple-A, securities to be sold by us will comprise approximately 75-80% of the total securities issued. The balance of securities we expect to issue, the subordinated notes rated double-A and single-A, will comprise the remaining 20-25%. The current market environment for subordinated securities is considerably more challenging than the market for triple-A securities, particularly since such securities are not eligible under the TALF program. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the double-A and single-A rated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, or that the pricing and terms demanded by investors for such securities will be acceptable to us. If we were unable for any reason to sell the double-A and single-A rated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, we would be required to hold such securities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and could force us to curtail or suspend loan origination activities. In order to induce investors to purchase double-A and single-A rated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, we may find it necessary to pay other forms of consideration in addition to the interest coupons on the securities, including upfront commitment fees and warrants to acquire our common stock. The amount of such consideration, if provided, may be material and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and, in the case of warrants to acquire our common stock, could be dilutive to existing shareholders. We also expect the initial credit enhancement on future senior-subordinated securitizations to be in the high-20% range with a somewhat higher level of targeted credit enhancement. In the AMCAR 2009-1 securitization, the initial cash deposit and overcollateralization requirement was 28.1%. The required initial and targeted credit enhancement levels depend, in part, on the net interest margin expected over the life of a securitization, the collateral characteristics of the pool of receivables securitized, credit performance trends of our finance receivables, the structure of the securitization transaction, our financial condition and the economic environment. In periods of economic weakness and associated deterioration of credit performance trends, required credit enhancement levels generally increase, particularly for securitizations of higher risk finance receivables such as our loan portfolio. Higher levels of credit enhancement require significantly greater use of liquidity to execute a securitization transaction. The extent of the credit enhancement requirements in the future could adversely impact our ability to execute securitization transactions and may affect the timing of such securitizations given the increased amount of liquidity necessary to fund credit enhancement requirements. This, in turn, may adversely impact our ability to opportunistically access the capital markets when conditions are more favorable. Liquidity and Capital Needs. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, capital market conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. We expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash. Our primary cash requirements include the funding of: (i) contract purchases pending their securitization; (ii) credit enhancement requirements in connection 16 Table of Contents with the securitization of the receivables and credit facilities; (iii) interest and principal payments under our credit facilities and other indebtedness; (iv) fees and expenses incurred in connection with the securitization and servicing of receivables and credit facilities; (v) ongoing operating expenses; (vi) income tax payments; and (vii) capital expenditures. We require substantial amounts of cash to fund our contract purchase and securitization activities. Although we must fund certain credit enhancement requirements upon the closing of a securitization, we typically receive the cash representing excess cash flows and return of credit enhancement deposits over the actual life of the receivables securitized. We also incur transaction costs in connection with a securitization transaction. Accordingly, our strategy of securitizing our newly purchased receivables will require significant amounts of cash. Our primary sources of future liquidity are expected to be: (i) interest and principal payments on loans not yet securitized; (ii) distributions received from securitization Trusts; (iii) servicing fees; (iv) borrowings under our credit facilities or proceeds from securitization transactions; (v) receipt of a federal income tax refund; and (vi) further issuances of other debt or equity securities. Because we expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash for the foreseeable future, we anticipate that we will require the execution of additional securitization transactions and may choose to enter into other additional debt or equity financings. The type, timing and terms of financing selected by us will be dependent upon our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and the prevailing conditions in the capital markets. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that the funding will be on acceptable terms. If we are unable to execute securitization transactions on a regular basis, we would not have sufficient funds to finance new loan originations and, in such event, we would be required to revise the scale of our business, including possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. Leverage. We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including the performance of receivables transferred to securitization Trusts, and our ability to enter into additional securitization transactions as well as other debt or equity financings, which, to a certain extent, are subject to economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, capital markets and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancings will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to service or refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The degree to which we are leveraged creates risks including: (i) we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness; (ii) we may find it more difficult to fund future credit enhancement requirements, operating costs, income tax payments, capital expenditures, or general corporate expenditures; (iii) we may have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to payments on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and (iv) we may be vulnerable to adverse general economic, capital markets and industry conditions. Our credit facilities require us to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants, including minimum asset quality maintenance requirements. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other necessary or desirable business activities. As of June 30, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants in our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. As of and subsequent to June 30, 2009, we were in violation of a covenant relating to a required interest rate hedge contained in our prime/near prime facility and such violation was cured and waived by the lenders in August 2009. 17 Table of Contents If we cannot comply with the requirements in our credit facilities, then the lenders may increase our borrowing costs, remove us as servicer or require us to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt. If our debt payments were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. These lenders may require us to use all of our available cash to repay our debt, foreclose upon their collateral or prevent us from making payments to other creditors on certain portions of our outstanding debt. These events may also result in a default under our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. We may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance our debt, if needed. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would materially suffer. Default and Prepayment Risks. Our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations depend, to a material extent, on the performance of loans in our portfolio. Obligors under contracts acquired or originated by us may default during the term of their loan. Generally, we bear the full risk of losses resulting from defaults. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for our finance receivable portfolio which reflects management’s estimates of inherent losses for these loans. If the allowance is inadequate, we would recognize the losses in excess of that allowance as an expense and results of operations would be adversely affected. A material adjustment to our allowance for loan losses and the corresponding decrease in earnings could limit our ability to enter into future securitizations and other financings, thus impairing our ability to finance our business. We are required to deposit substantial amounts of the cash flows generated by our interests in securitizations sponsored by us to satisfy targeted credit enhancement requirements. An increase in defaults would reduce the cash flows generated by our interests in securitization transactions lengthening the period required to build targeted credit enhancement levels in the securitization trusts. Distributions of cash from the securitizations to us would be delayed and the ultimate amount of cash distributable to us would be less, which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The targeted credit enhancement levels in future securitizations will also likely be increased, further impacting our liquidity. Portfolio Performance—Negative Impact on Cash Flows. Generally, the form of agreements we have entered into with our financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions insured by them contain specified limits on portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss) on the receivables included in each securitization Trust. If, at any measurement date, a portfolio performance ratio with respect to any Trust were to exceed the specified limits, provisions of the credit enhancement agreement would automatically increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that Trust if a waiver was not obtained. During the period in which the specified portfolio performance ratio was exceeded, excess cash flows, if any, from the Trust would be used to fund additional credit enhancement up to the increased levels instead of being distributed to us, which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Our securitization transactions insured by some of our financial guaranty insurance providers are cross-collateralized to a limited extent. In the event of a shortfall in the original targeted credit enhancement requirement for any of these securitization Trusts after a certain period of time, excess cash flows from other transactions insured by the same insurance provider would be used to satisfy the shortfall amount rather than be distributed to us. Right to Terminate Servicing. The agreements that we have entered into with our financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions insured by them contain additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss) that are higher than the limits referred to in the preceding risk factor. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these additional levels, provisions of the agreements permit the financial guaranty insurance providers to declare the occurrence of an event of default and take steps to terminate our servicing rights to the receivables sold to that Trust. In addition, the servicing 18 Table of Contents agreements on certain insured securitization Trusts are cross-defaulted so that a default declared under one servicing agreement would allow the financial guaranty insurance provider to terminate our servicing rights under all servicing agreements for securitization Trusts in which they issued a financial guaranty insurance policy. Additionally, if these higher targeted portfolio performance levels were exceeded and the financial guaranty insurance providers elect to declare an event of default, the insurance providers may retain all excess cash generated by other securitization transactions insured by them as additional credit enhancement. This, in turn, could result in defaults under our other securitizations and other material indebtedness, including under our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. Although we have never exceeded these additional targeted portfolio performance ratios, there can be no assurance that we will not exceed these additional targeted portfolio performance ratios in the future. If such targeted portfolio performance ratios are exceeded, or if we have breached our obligations under the servicing agreements, or if the financial guaranty insurance providers are required to make payments under a policy, or if certain bankruptcy or insolvency events were to occur then there can be no assurance that an event of default will not be declared and our servicing rights will not be terminated. As of June 30, 2009, no such servicing right termination events have occurred with respect to any of the Trusts formed by us. The termination of any or all of our servicing rights would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Implementation of Business Strategy. Our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations depend on management’s ability to execute our business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of the business strategy include achieving the desired loan origination volume, continued and successful use of proprietary scoring models for credit risk assessment and risk-based pricing, the use of effective credit risk management techniques and servicing strategies, implementation of effective loan servicing and collection practices, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency, and continued access to funding and liquidity sources. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Target Consumer Base. The majority of our loan purchasing and servicing activities involve sub-prime automobile receivables. Sub-prime borrowers are associated with higher-than-average delinquency and default rates. While we believe that we effectively manage these risks with our proprietary credit scoring system, risk-based loan pricing and other underwriting policies and collection methods, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will be effective in the future. In the event that we underestimate the default risk or under-price contracts that we purchase, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations would be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. Economic Conditions. We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the United States economy is currently experiencing, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase. These periods also may be accompanied by increased unemployment rates, decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Additionally, higher gasoline prices, declining stock market values, unstable real estate values, resets of adjustable rate mortgages to higher interest rates, increasing unemployment levels, general availability of consumer credit or other factors that impact consumer confidence or disposable income could increase loss frequency and decrease consumer demand for automobiles as well as weaken collateral values on certain types of automobiles. Because we focus predominantly on sub-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we seek to manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to sub-prime borrowers through the underwriting criteria and collection methods we employ, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and our ability to enter into future securitizations and future credit facilities. 19 Table of Contents Wholesale Auction Values. We sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States and Canada. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown or slack consumer demand will result in higher credit losses for us. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, financial difficulties of the new vehicle manufacturers and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. Additionally, higher gasoline prices may decrease the wholesale auction values of certain types of vehicles as evidenced by declines in calendar 2008 in the wholesale values of large sport utility vehicles and trucks. Our net recoveries as a percentage of repossession charge-offs were 40% in fiscal 2009, 45% in fiscal 2008 and 49% in fiscal 2007. There can be no assurance that our recovery rates will remain at current levels. Interest Rates. Our profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affects the gross interest rate spread we earn on our receivables. As the level of interest rates change, our gross interest rate spread on new originations either increases or decreases since the rates charged on the contracts purchased from dealers are limited by market and competitive conditions, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs to the consumer. We believe that our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could be adversely affected during any period of higher interest rates, possibly to a material degree. We monitor the interest rate environment and employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. We can provide no assurance however, that hedging strategies will mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. Significant Share Ownership. As of June 30, 2009, we have two shareholders that each held significant share ownership of our outstanding common stock. Leucadia National Corp. (“Leucadia”) owns 25% of our outstanding common stock and has two members on our Board of Directors. As a result, Leucadia could exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control and make the approval of certain transactions more difficult without their support. We have entered into a standstill agreement with Leucadia which expires on March 3, 2010. Subsequent to the termination of the standstill agreement, Leucadia will not be restricted from taking certain actions regarding business combinations or proxy solicitations concerning the composition of our Board of Directors. Fairholme Funds Inc. (“Fairholme”) owns 24% of our outstanding common stock and has one member on our Board of Directors. As a result, Fairholme could exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control and make the approval of certain transactions more difficult without their support. We have entered into a standstill agreement with Fairholme which expires on December 31, 2010. Subsequent to the termination of the standstill agreement, Fairholme will not be restricted from taking certain actions regarding business combinations or proxy solicitations concerning the composition of our Board of Directors. Labor Market Conditions. Competition to hire and retain personnel possessing the skills and experience required by us could contribute to an increase in our employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our delinquency, default and net loss rates, our ability to grow and, ultimately, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Data Integrity. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or loan information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or loan information, we could be subject to 20 Table of Contents liability. This liability could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liabilities could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability, and damage our reputation. Regulation. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business – Regulation” for a discussion of regulatory risk factors. Competition. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business – Competition” for a discussion of competitive risk factors. Litigation. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of finance contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities. However, any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 