ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The profitability and financial condition of our operations are dependent upon the operations of our parent, General Motors. A material portion of our business consists of financing the sale of new GM vehicles. If there were significant changes in GM’s liquidity and capital position and access to the capital markets, the production or sales of GM vehicles to retail customers, the quality or resale value of GM vehicles, or other factors impacting GM or its employees, such changes could significantly affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, GM sponsors special-rate financing programs available through us. Under these programs, GM makes interest supplements or other support payments to us. These programs increase our financing volume and share 13 Table of Contents of financing the sales of GM vehicles. If GM were to adopt marketing strategies in the future that de-emphasized such programs in favor of other incentives, our financing volume could be reduced. We currently have a $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility with GM. If this facility was no longer available, and we were unable to obtain similar funding elsewhere, our liquidity would be negatively impacted. Our ability to continue to purchase contracts and to fund our business is dependent on a number of financing sources. Dependence on Credit Facilities. We depend on various credit facilities to finance our purchase of contracts pending securitization. At December 31, 2011, we had a warehouse credit facility to support new originations. This facility, which we refer to as our syndicated warehouse facility provides borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion through May 2012. In May 2012 when the revolving period ends and if the facility is not renewed, the outstanding balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until May 2013 when the remaining balance will be due and payable. We also have two leasing credit facilities: (a) $600 million lease warehouse facility for lease originations in the U.S. that requires renewal in January 2013 and (b) C$600 million lease warehouse facility for lease originations in Canada that requires renewal in July 2012. Under both of these lease facilities, when the revolving periods end, and if the facilities are not renewed, the outstanding balance will be repaid over a period of approximately six years based on the amortization of the leasing related assets pledged, at which point in time any remaining amounts outstanding will be due and payable. Additionally, we have a medium term note facility that reached the end of its revolving period in October 2009 and had $293.5 million outstanding at December 31, 2011. The outstanding balance of this facility will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until October 2016 when any remaining amount outstanding will be due and payable. We cannot guarantee that any of these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates on reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, as our volume of loan and lease originations increase, including an expansion of leasing volume in Canada, we will require the expansion of our borrowing capacity on our existing credit facilities or the addition of new credit facilities. The availability of these financing sources depend, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit, the financial strength and strategic objectives of the banks that participate in our credit facilities and the availability of bank liquidity in general. If we are unable to extend or replace these facilities or arrange new credit facilities or other types of interim financing, we will have to curtail or suspend origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Our credit facilities, other than the GM revolving credit facility, contain a borrowing base or advance formula which requires us to pledge finance contracts in excess of the amounts which we can borrow under the facilities. We are also required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, the finance contracts pledged as collateral must be less than 31 days delinquent at periodic measurement dates. Accordingly, increases in delinquencies or defaults on pledged collateral resulting from weakened economic conditions, or due to our inability to execute securitization transactions or any other factor, would require us to pledge additional finance contracts to support the same borrowing levels and to replace delinquent or defaulted collateral. The pledge of additional finance contracts to support our credit facilities would adversely impact our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Additionally, the credit facilities, other than the GM revolving credit facility, generally contain various covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio 14 Table of Contents net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these facilities. If the lenders elect to accelerate outstanding indebtedness under these agreements following the violation of any covenant, such actions may result in an event of default under our senior note indenture. Dependence on Securitization Program. General. Since December 1994, we have relied upon our ability to transfer receivables to Trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of credit facilities and to purchase additional receivables. Accordingly, adverse changes in our asset-backed securities program or in the asset-backed securities market for automobile receivables in general have in the past, and could in the future, materially adversely affect our ability to purchase and securitize loans on a timely basis and upon terms acceptable to us. Any adverse change or delay would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. We will continue to require the execution of securitization transactions in order to fund our future liquidity needs. Additionally, we will require the expansion of our securitization program, or the development of other long-term funding solutions, to fund our U.S. and Canadian lease originations. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If these sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience on the collateral, breach of financial covenants or portfolio and pool performance measures, disruption of the asset-backed market or otherwise, we will be required to revise the scale of our business, including the possible discontinuation of origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in selling securities in the asset-backed securities market. Since we are highly dependent on the availability of the asset-backed securities market to finance our operations, disruptions in this market or adverse changes or delays in our ability to access this market would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities could result in our having to hold assets until investor demand improves, but our capacity to hold assets is not unlimited. A reduced demand for our asset-backed securities could require us to reduce our origination levels. A return to adverse market conditions, such as we experienced in 2008 and early 2009, could also result in increased costs and reduced margins in connection with our securitization transactions. Securitization Structures. Since the second half of 2008, we have primarily utilized senior subordinated securitization structures which involve the public and private sale of subordinated asset-backed securities to provide credit enhancement for the senior, or highest rated, asset-backed securities. In a senior subordinated securitization, we expect that the highest rated, or triple-A, securities to be sold by us will comprise approximately 70% of the total securities issued. The balance of securities we expect to issue, the subordinated notes, will comprise the remaining 30%. Sizes of the classes depend upon rating agency loss assumptions and loss coverage requirements in addition to the sizing of subordinate bond classes. The market environment for subordinated securities is traditionally smaller than for senior securities and, therefore, can be more challenging than the market for triple-A securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the subordinated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, or that the pricing and terms demanded by investors for such securities will be acceptable to us. If we were unable for any reason to sell the subordinated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, we would be required to hold such securities, or find other sources of debt financing which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and could force us to curtail or suspend origination activities. 15 Table of Contents The amount of the initial credit enhancement on future senior-subordinated securitizations will be dependent upon the amount of subordinated securities sold and the desired ratings on the securities being sold. In the AMCAR 2012-1 securitization, the initial cash deposit and overcollateralization requirement was 7.75% in order to provide credit enhancement for the asset-backed securities sold, including the double-B rated securities which were the lowest rated securities sold. The required initial and targeted credit enhancement levels depend, in part, on the net interest margin expected over the life of a securitization, the collateral characteristics of the pool of receivables securitized, credit performance trends of our entire portfolio and the structure of the securitization transaction. Credit enhancement levels may also be impacted by our financial condition and the economic environment. In periods of economic weakness and associated deterioration of credit performance trends, required credit enhancement levels generally increase, particularly for securitizations of higher risk finance receivables such as our loan portfolio. Higher levels of credit enhancement require significantly greater use of liquidity to execute a securitization transaction. The level of credit enhancement requirements in the future could adversely impact our ability to execute securitization transactions and may affect the timing of such securitizations given the increased amount of liquidity necessary to fund credit enhancement requirements. This, in turn, may adversely impact our ability to opportunistically access the capital markets when conditions are favorable. The second type of securitization structure, that we last utilized in August 2010, involves the purchase of a financial guaranty insurance policy provided by various monoline insurance providers in order to achieve triple-A ratings on the securities issued in our securitization transactions. Most of the monoline insurers we have used in the past are still facing financial stress and have received rating agency downgrades due to risk exposures on insurance policies that guarantee mortgage debt and related structured products. As a result, there is limited demand for securities guaranteed by insurance policies. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash and our access to the capital markets in the future. These, to a certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, capital market conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. We expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash. Our primary cash requirements include the funding of: • loan purchases pending their securitization; • lease purchases; • credit enhancement requirements in connection with securitization and credit facilities; • interest and principal payments under our credit facilities and other indebtedness; • fees and expenses incurred in connection with the securitization and servicing of loans and leases and credit facilities; • ongoing operating expenses; and • capital expenditures. We require substantial amounts of cash to fund our origination and securitization activities. Although we must fund certain credit enhancement requirements upon the closing of a securitization, we typically receive the cash representing excess cash flows and return of credit enhancement deposits over the actual life of the receivables securitized. We also incur transaction costs in connection with a securitization transaction. Accordingly, our strategy of securitizing our newly purchased receivables will require significant amounts of cash. Additionally, we expect to expand our business in 2012 to include dealer wholesale and commercial 16 Table of Contents lending for GM dealers, activities that will require substantial amounts of cash to support, particularly until we are able to obtain credit facilities and create a securitization platform to help fund such receivables. Our primary sources of future liquidity are expected to be: • payments on loans and leases not yet securitized; • distributions received from Trusts; • servicing fees; • borrowings under our credit facilities or proceeds from securitization transactions; • further issuances of other debt securities; and • borrowings on our unsecured line of credit with GM. Because we expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash for the foreseeable future, we anticipate that we will require the execution of additional securitization transactions and may choose to enter into other additional debt financings. The type, timing and terms of financing selected by us will be dependent upon our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and the prevailing conditions in the capital markets. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that the funding will be on acceptable terms. If we are unable to execute securitization transactions on a regular basis, we would not have sufficient funds to finance new originations and, in such event, we would be required to revise the scale of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our existing indebtedness. We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including the performance of receivables transferred to Trusts, and our ability to enter into additional securitization transactions as well as other debt financings, which, to a certain extent, are subject to economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, capital markets and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancings will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to service or refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The degree to which we are leveraged creates risks, including: • we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness; • we may find it more difficult to fund future credit enhancement requirements, operating costs, tax payments, capital expenditures, or general corporate expenditures; • we may have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to payments on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and • we may be vulnerable to adverse general economic, capital markets and industry conditions. Our credit facilities, other than the GM revolving credit facility, typically require us to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants, including minimum asset quality maintenance requirements. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other necessary or desirable business activities. 17 Table of Contents If we cannot comply with the requirements in our credit facilities, then the lenders may increase our borrowing costs, remove us as servicer or declare the outstanding debt immediately due and payable. If our debt payments were accelerated, the assets pledged on these facilities might not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. These lenders may foreclose upon their collateral, including the restricted cash in these credit facilities. These events may also result in a default under our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. We may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance our debt, if needed. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would materially suffer. Defaults and prepayments on contracts purchased or originated by us could adversely affect our operations. Our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations depend, to a material extent, on the performance of loans and leases in our portfolio. Obligors under contracts acquired or originated by us may default during the term of their loan or lease. Generally, we bear the full risk of losses resulting from defaults. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding contract balance and costs of recovery. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for finance receivables originated since October 1, 2010 (our “post-acquisition finance receivables” portfolio) which reflects management’s estimates of inherent losses for these loans. If the allowance is inadequate, we would recognize the losses in excess of that allowance as an expense and results of operations would be adversely affected. A material adjustment to our allowance for loan losses and the corresponding decrease in earnings could limit our ability to enter into future securitizations and other financings, thus impairing our ability to finance our business. We also maintain a carrying value adjustment for finance receivables originated prior to October 1, 2010 (our “pre-acquisition finance receivables” portfolio), which includes future credit losses for these loans. Any incremental deterioration on loans in this group beyond the carrying value adjustment will result in an incremental allowance for loan losses being recorded. Improvements or resolutions will not be a direct offset to provisions or charge-offs, but will result in a transfer of the excess non-accretable discount to accretable yield, which will be recorded as finance charge income over the remaining life from the finance receivables. We are required to deposit substantial amounts of the cash generated by our interests in securitizations sponsored by us to satisfy targeted credit enhancement requirements. An increase in defaults would reduce the cash flows generated by our interests in securitization transactions lengthening the period required to build targeted credit enhancement levels in the Trusts. Distributions of cash from the securitizations to us would be delayed and the ultimate amount of cash distributable to us would be less, which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The targeted credit enhancement levels in future securitizations may also be increased, due to an increase in defaults and losses, further impacting our liquidity. Consumer prepayments affect the amount of finance charge income we receive over the life of the loans. If prepayment levels increase for any reason and we are not able to replace the prepaid receivables with newly originated loans, we will receive less finance charge income and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The negative performance of auto contracts in our portfolio could adversely affect our cash flow and servicing rights. Portfolio Performance – Negative Impact on Cash Flows. Generally, the form of agreements we have entered into with our financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions insured by them contain specified limits on portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss) on the receivables included in each Trust. If, at any measurement date, a portfolio performance ratio with respect to any Trust were to exceed the specified limits, provisions of the credit enhancement agreement would automatically increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that Trust 18 Table of Contents if a waiver was not obtained. During the period in which the specified portfolio performance ratio was exceeded, excess cash flows, if any, from the Trust would be used to fund additional credit enhancement up to the increased levels instead of being distributed to us, which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Our securitization transactions insured by some of our financial guaranty insurance providers are cross-collateralized to a limited extent. In the event of a shortfall in the original targeted credit enhancement requirement for any of these Trusts after a certain period of time, excess cash flows from other transactions insured by the same insurance provider would be used to satisfy the shortfall amount rather than be distributed to us. Right to Terminate Servicing. The agreements that we have entered into with our financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions insured by them contain additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss) that are higher than the limits referred to above. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these additional levels, provisions of the agreements permit the financial guaranty insurance providers to declare the occurrence of an event of default and take steps to terminate our servicing rights to the receivables sold to that Trust. In addition, the servicing agreements on certain insured Trusts are cross-defaulted so that a default declared under one servicing agreement would allow the financial guaranty insurance provider to terminate our servicing rights under all servicing agreements for Trusts in which they issued a financial guaranty insurance policy. Additionally, if these higher targeted portfolio performance levels were exceeded and the financial guaranty insurance providers elected to declare an event of default, the insurance providers may retain all excess cash generated by other securitization transactions insured by them as additional credit enhancement. This, in turn, could result in defaults under our other securitizations and other material indebtedness, including under our senior note indenture. Although we have never exceeded these additional targeted portfolio performance ratios, there can be no assurance that we will not exceed these additional targeted portfolio performance ratios in the future. If such targeted portfolio performance ratios are exceeded, or if we have breached our obligations under the servicing agreements, or if the financial guaranty insurance providers are required to make payments under a policy, or if certain bankruptcy or insolvency events were to occur then there can be no assurance that an event of default will not be declared and our servicing rights will not be terminated. The termination of any or all of our servicing rights would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Failure to implement our business strategy could adversely affect our operations. Our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations depend on management’s ability to execute our business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of the business strategy include achieving the desired origination volume, continued and successful use of proprietary scoring models for credit risk assessment and risk-based pricing, the use of effective credit risk management techniques and servicing strategies, implementation of effective servicing and collection practices, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency, implementation of floorplan and commercial lending programs for GM dealers and continued access to funding and liquidity sources. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. There is a high degree of risk associated with sub-prime borrowers. The majority of our origination and servicing activities involve sub-prime automobile receivables. Sub-prime borrowers are associated with higher-than-average delinquency and default rates. While we believe that we effectively manage these risks with our proprietary credit scoring system, risk-based pricing and other underwriting policies, and our servicing and collection methods, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will be effective in the future. In the event that we underestimate the default risk or under-price contracts that we purchase, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations would be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. 19 Table of Contents Our profitability is dependent upon consumer demand for automobiles and automobile financing and the ability of consumers to repay loans and leases, and our business may be negatively affected during times of low automobile sales, fluctuating wholesale prices and lease residual values, rising interest rates, weakening of the Canadian dollar and high unemployment. General. We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase. These periods also may be accompanied by increased unemployment rates, decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Additionally, higher gasoline prices, declining stock market values, unstable real estate values, increasing unemployment levels, general availability of consumer credit or other factors that impact consumer confidence or disposable income could increase loss frequency and decrease consumer demand for automobiles as well as weaken collateral values on certain types of automobiles. Because we focus predominantly on sub-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we seek to manage the higher risk inherent in financing sub-prime borrowers through the underwriting criteria and collection methods we employ, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to enter into future securitizations and future credit facilities. Wholesale Auction Values. We sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States and Canada. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. We also sell automobiles returned to us at the end of a lease term. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown or slack consumer demand will result in higher credit losses for us. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, financial difficulties of the new vehicle manufacturers, discontinuance of vehicle brands and models and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. Additionally, higher gasoline prices may decrease the wholesale auction values of certain types of vehicles. Leased Vehicle Residual Values and Return Rates. We project expected residual values and return volumes of the vehicles we lease. Actual proceeds realized by us upon the sale of returned leased vehicles at lease termination may be lower than the amount projected, which reduces the profitability of the lease transaction to us. Among the factors that can affect the value of returned lease vehicles are the volume of vehicles returned, economic conditions and the quality or perceived quality, safety or reliability of the vehicles. Actual return volumes may be higher than expected and can be influenced by contractual lease end values relative to auction values, marketing programs for new vehicles, and general economic conditions. All of these, alone or in combination, have the potential to adversely affect the profitability of our lease program and financial results. Interest Rates. Our profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affects the gross interest rate spread we earn on our portfolio. As the level of interest rates change, our gross interest rate spread on new originations either increases or decreases since the rates charged on the contracts purchased from dealers are fixed rate and are limited by market and competitive conditions, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs to the consumer. We believe that our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could be adversely affected during any period of higher interest rates, possibly to a material degree. We monitor the interest rate environment and may employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. We can provide no assurance however, that hedging strategies will mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. 20 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. We are exposed to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in currency exchange rates cannot always be predicted or hedged. As a result, unfavorable changes in the Canadian dollar could have an effect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Labor Market Conditions. Competition to hire and retain personnel possessing the skills and experience required by us could contribute to an increase in our employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our delinquency, default and net loss rates, our ability to grow and, ultimately, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. A security breach or a cyber attack could adversely affect our business. A security breach or cyber attack of our computer systems could interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or contract information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or contract information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liabilities could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or cyber attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches and cyber attacks, but our failure to prevent such security breaches and cyber attacks could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability, and damage our reputation. We are involved in and will likely continue to be party to litigation. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers and/or shareholders. As the assignee of finance contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities. However, any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against us could have a material affect on our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. We could be jointly and severally liable for certain pension obligations of our affiliate, GM Holdings. Although we do not sponsor defined benefit pension plans for our employees, an affiliate of ours, GM Holdings sponsors U.S. defined benefit plans covering a portion of its U.S. employees and retirees. The GM Holdings plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), and they are underfunded. ERISA, along with certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), requires minimum funding contributions to these pension plans, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty 21 Table of Contents Corporation (“PBGC”) has the authority under certain circumstances to petition a court to terminate an underfunded pension plan. Under ERISA and the Code, we would be jointly and severally liable, together with GM Holdings, for the amount of the unfunded benefit liabilities resulting from a termination of one of these pension plans by the PBGC. In addition, a failure to make required minimum contributions or such a termination of a pension plan by the PBGC could result in liens imposed on our assets. Regulation. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business – Regulation” for a discussion of regulatory risk factors. Competition. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business – Competition” for a discussion of competitive risk factors. 