Item 1A. Risk Factors. We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report to shareholders, quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are “forward-looking statements” and are based on financial data and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our expectations. The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight 6 Table of Contents what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. A material change in the demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business. We are a consumer products company and rely on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers and retail trade customers. This is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. In addition, our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents that lead to the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the world. The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well we can respond to our local and global competitors. Across all of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms, as well as technological advances and patents granted to competition. Our ability to successfully integrate key acquisitions, primarily Gillette, could impact our business results. Since our goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must be able to successfully manage and integrate key acquisitions, such as the acquisition of The Gillette Company. Specifically, we must be able to integrate acquisitions without any significant disruption to our ability to manage and execute business plans on our base businesses. In addition, our financial results could be adversely impacted if we are not able to deliver the expected cost and growth synergies associated with our acquisitions. Our businesses face cost pressures which could affect our business results. Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Our costs in 2006 were impacted by higher commodity costs and this trend is likely to continue in 2007. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects (including outsourcing projects), sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements. We face risks associated with significant international operations. We conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our sales outside the United States. Economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, 7 Table of Contents especially in our significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other hostile activities. Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Accordingly, our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, and intellectual property matters as well as those related to the integration of Gillette and its subsidiaries) and to resolve pending matters within current estimates may impact our results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 