ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS. In addition to risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the Company believes the following, which have not been sequenced in any particular order, are the most significant risks related to our business that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. 9 Table of Contents We have significant debt and our debt service obligations are substantial, which could diminish our ability to raise additional capital and limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. We have substantial amounts of outstanding indebtedness. As of March 31, 2006, we had total consolidated debt of approximately $768 million, of which $132 million matures within the next 12 months. We also participate in a trade receivables securitization agreement with two commercial banks to sell up to $250 million in qualified trade receivables. At March 31, 2006, the amount of outstanding trade receivables under the program was $244 million. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; • requiring the dedication of a significant portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; • making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors; • increasing the amount of our interest expense, because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense (at current debt levels and ratio of fixed to floating rate debt, we estimate that for every 25 basis point rise of LIBOR, interest expense would increase by $1.2 million); and • limiting, through the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or make investments. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions, governmental regulation and the availability of fuel supplies. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Despite currently expected levels of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries will be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risk associated with our significant debt levels. We and our subsidiaries will be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our credit facility and indentures governing our subordinated notes contain limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, those limitations are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions that, depending on the circumstances at the time, would allow us to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness. As of March 31, 2006, we had additional availability under our bank credit facility of approximately $237 million. We can arrange to borrow, in addition to our credit facility, up to $269 million. To the extent new debt and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor would increase. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions and by the cyclical nature of the industries many of our customers are in, which can cause significant fluctuations in our sales and results. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions. A decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by our customers can have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, many of our customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the industrial 10 Table of Contents manufacturing, construction, petrochemical and transportation industries, which accounted for approximately 45% of our sales in fiscal 2006. Downturns in these industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, can adversely affect our sales and our financial results by affecting demand for and pricing of our products. We may not be successful in generating market leading sales growth and in controlling expenses, which could limit our ability to achieve our expected growth. Although one of our principal business strategies is to drive market leading sales growth, the achievement of this objective may be adversely affected by: • competition from independent distributors and vertically integrated gas producers on products and pricing; • changes in supply prices from gas producers and manufacturers of hardgoods; and • general economic conditions in the industrial markets which we serve. In addition, we may not be able to adequately control expenses due to inflation and potentially higher costs of our distribution infrastructure. Increases in product and energy costs could reduce our profitability. The cost of industrial gases represented a significant percentage of our operating costs in fiscal 2006. Because the production of industrial gases requires significant amounts of electric energy, industrial gas prices have historically increased as the cost of electric energy increases. Recent price increases in oil and natural gas have resulted in electric energy surcharges. Energy prices may continue to rise and, as a result, increase the cost of industrial gases. In addition, a significant portion of our distribution costs is comprised of diesel fuel costs, which have increased significantly during the current year. While we have historically been able to pass increases in the cost of our supplies and operating expenses on to our customers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Our ability to pass on increases in our costs is dependent on market conditions. So, raising prices could result in a loss of sales volume, which could significantly reduce our profitability. Our financial results may be adversely affected by gas supply disruptions. We are the largest distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases and have long term supply contracts with the major gas producers to mitigate supply disruptions. However, natural disasters, plant shut downs and other supply disruptions occur within our industry. Regional supply disruptions may create shortages of certain products. Consequently, we may not be able to obtain the products required to meet our customers’ demands or may incur significant cost to ship product from other regions of the country to meet customer requirements. Such additional costs may adversely impact operating results in those regions until product sourcing can be restored. During fiscal 2006, hurricanes Katrina and Rita damaged the production facilities of a major gas supplier to the gulf coast region. Although we successfully met customer demand by arranging for alternative supplies and transporting product into the region, we can not assure you that we will be as successful in arranging alternative product supplies or passing the additional transportation cost on to customers in the event of future supply disruptions. We may not be successful in completing acquisitions, which may adversely affect our growth and operating results. We have historically expanded our business primarily through acquisitions. A part of our business strategy is to continue to grow through acquisitions that complement and expand our distribution network. During fiscal 2006, we completed 13 acquisitions. We are continuously evaluating acquisition opportunities, some of which are large and complex, and consolidation possibilities, and we are currently in various stages of due diligence or preliminary discussions with respect to a number of potential transactions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to identify acquisition candidates, or that we will be able to complete acquisitions on terms acceptable to us. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us for future acquisitions and, in any event, such financing may be restricted by the terms of our credit facility or indentures related to our senior subordinated notes. 11 Table of Contents We may not be successful in integrating our past and future acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies. The process of integrating acquired operations into our operations and achieving targeted synergies may result in unexpected operating difficulties and may require significant financial and other resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of the existing operations. Additionally, the failure to achieve targeted synergies or planed operating results could require us to recognize an impairment charge related to goodwill associated with the acquisition. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations, information systems and products; • failure to achieve targeted synergies; • inability to retain key employees, customers and business relationships of acquired companies; and • diversion of the attention and resources of our management team. Additionally, the acquired company may not have an internal control structure appropriate for a larger public company resulting in a need for significant remediation. Acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business if we are required to assume debt and other liabilities of the acquired business. We may be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future, which may be substantial. In addition, acquisitions may result in the assumption of the outstanding indebtedness of the acquired company, as well as the incurrence of contingent liabilities and other expenses. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key personnel regarding our distribution infrastructure, systems and products. The loss of key employees could have a negative effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to litigation risk as a result of the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits that arise from our business transactions. Litigation may, for example, relate to product liability claims, contractual disputes, or employment maters. The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits against us may result in higher operating expenses. Those higher operating expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have established insurance programs with significant deductibles and maximum coverage limits which could result in the recognition of significant losses. We maintain insurance coverage for workers compensation, auto and general liability claims with significant per claim deductibles and in some policy years aggregate per claim retentions above those deductibles. In the past, we have incurred significant workers compensation, auto, and general liability losses. Such losses could result in not achieving profitability goals. Additionally, claims in excess of our insurance limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation or liquidity. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. Although our operations are relatively disbursed across the U.S., a catastrophic event such as a fire or explosion at one of the Company’s fill plants or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados and earthquakes, could result in significant property losses, employee injuries and third party damage claims. Additionally, such events may severely impact our regional customer base and supply sources resulting in lost revenues, higher product costs, and increased bad debts. As a result of hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we incurred $2.2 million through March 31, 2006 principally in property losses. 12 Table of Contents Our financial statements reflect the operating results of our joint venture, National Welders, over which we have limited control and any disagreement with National Welders could potentially adversely affect the business and operations of the joint venture. Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, (“FIN 46R”) requires us to consolidate our joint venture, National Welders. The joint venture agreement, entered into in 1996, limits our control over National Welders’ operations and cash flows. National Welders is also a private company and is not subject to the internal control reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Should the management of National Welders fail to maintain an appropriate control environment, our financial results may be adversely impacted by the joint venture’s mismanagement of risk exposures, incomplete due diligence on acquisitions, the misappropriation of assets at the joint venture, and/or poor operational performance. In the event National Welders does not observe its venture obligations, it is possible that they would not be able to operate in accordance with their agreed upon plans. We run the risk of encountering differences of opinion or having difficulty reaching agreement with respect to certain business issues. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulations which could subject us to liability and we will have ongoing environmental costs. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources. These include, among other things, the management of hazardous substances and wastes, air emissions and water discharges. Violations of some of these laws can result in substantial penalties, temporary or permanent plant closures and criminal convictions. Moreover, the nature of our existing and historical operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities to third parties. These potential claims include property damage, personal injuries and cleanup obligations. See “Item 1 Business— Regulatory and Environmental Matters” above. We operate in a highly competitive environment and such competition could negatively impact us. The U.S. industrial gas industry is comprised of a small number of major producers. Additionally, there are hundreds of smaller, local distributors, some of whom operate on a low-cost basis, primarily in the packaged gas segment. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we do. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, we will suffer lower revenue and a loss of market share. Although the current trend is for increasing prices, the industrial gas industry has experienced periods of falling prices, and if such a trend were to return, we could experience reduced revenues and/or cash flows. Previously, our major competitors and we have had to reduce prices in order to maintain our market share. Although prices are now increasing, in part due to increased energy and raw materials prices, we cannot assure you that the prices of our products will not fall in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows, or that we will be able to maintain current levels of profitability. ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 