ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Dependence on Credit Facilities. We depend on various credit facilities with financial institutions to finance our purchase of contracts pending securitization. At June 30, 2008, we had five separate credit facilities that provide borrowing capacity of up to $4,970.0 million, including: (i) a master warehouse facility providing up to $2,500.0 million of receivables financing which matures in October 2009; (ii) a medium term note facility providing $750.0 million of receivables financing which matures in October 2009; (iii) a call facility providing up to $500.0 million of receivables financing for finance receivables repurchased from securitization Trusts upon exercise of the cleanup call option which matures in August 2008; (iv) a prime/near prime facility providing up to $1,120.0 million for the financing of higher credit quality receivables which matures in September 2008; (v) a leasing warehouse facility providing up to $100.0 million for the financing of our lease receivables which matures in June 2009. The call facility matured in August 2008 and the facility was not renewed. Under the terms of the facility, receivables pledged will amortize down until the facility pays off. Additionally, we expect the prime/near prime facility, which matures in September 2008, to be renewed at an amount of $400.0 to $500.0 million. We cannot guarantee that any of these financing sources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates at reasonable terms or at all. The availability of these financing sources depends, in part, on factors outside of our control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit and the availability of bank liquidity in general. If we are unable to extend or replace these facilities or arrange new credit facilities or other types of interim financing, we will have to curtail or suspend loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Our credit facilities generally contain a borrowing base or advance formula which requires us to pledge levels of finance receivables in excess of the 19 Table of Contents amounts which we can borrow under the facilities. We are required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities. In addition, the finance receivables pledged as collateral must be less than 31 days delinquent at periodic measurement dates and, in the case of our master warehouse facility, finance receivables become ineligible to borrow against if they have been pledged collateral for more than 364 days. Accordingly, increases in delinquencies or defaults on pledged collateral resulting from weakened economic conditions, or aging of pledged receivables on the master warehouse facility for more than 364 days, due to our inability to execute securitization transactions or any other factor, would require us to pledge additional finance receivables to support borrowing levels and replace delinquent, defaulted or seasoned collateral. The pledge of additional finance receivables to support our credit facilities would adversely impact our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The current disruptions in the capital markets have caused banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit facilities and require more collateral and higher pricing upon renewal of existing credit facilities, if such facilities are renewed at all. Accordingly, as our existing credit facilities mature, we likely will be required to provide more collateral in the form of finance receivables or cash to support borrowing levels which will affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. In addition, higher pricing would increase our cost of funds and adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, the credit facilities contain various covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings under these facilities. If the lenders elect to accelerate outstanding indebtedness under these agreements following the violation of any covenant, such actions may result in an event of default under our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. As of June 30, 2008, our credit facilities were in compliance with all covenants. Dependence on Securitization Program. Since December 1994, we have relied upon our ability to transfer receivables to securitization Trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of credit facilities and to purchase additional receivables. Accordingly, adverse changes in our asset-backed securities program or in the asset-backed securities market for automobile receivables in general could materially adversely affect our ability to purchase and securitize loans on a timely basis and upon terms acceptable to us. Any adverse change or delay would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We will continue to require the execution of securitization transactions in order to fund our future liquidity needs. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If these sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience on the receivables, breach of financial covenants or portfolio and pool performance measures, disruption of the asset-backed market or otherwise, we will be required to revise the scale of our business, including the possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The asset-backed securities market along with credit markets in general, have been experiencing unprecedented disruptions. Market conditions which began deteriorating in mid-2007, remained impaired through fiscal 2008, and will likely remain so during fiscal 2009. Current conditions in the asset-backed securities market include increased risk premiums for issuers, reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities, particularly those securities backed by sub-prime collateral, financial stress and rating agency downgrades impacting the financial guaranty insurance providers, and a general tightening of availability of credit. These conditions, which may increase our cost of funding and reduce our access to the asset-backed securities market may continue or worsen in the future. We attempt to mitigate the impact of market disruptions by obtaining adequate committed credit facilities from a variety of reliable sources. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in selling securities in the asset-backed securities market, at least in the near term, that our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our loan origination activities until the disruptions in the securitization markets subside or that the cost of debt will allow us to operate at profitable levels. Since we are highly dependent on the availability of the asset-backed securities market to finance our operations, continued disruptions in this market or adverse changes or delays in our ability to access this market would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Continued reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities such as our asset-backed securities could result in our having to hold auto loans until investor demand improves, but our capacity to hold auto loans is not unlimited. A reduced demand for our asset-backed securities could require us to reduce the amount of auto loans that we will purchase. Continued adverse market conditions could also result in increased costs and reduced margins earned in connection with our securitization transactions. Dependence on Financial Guaranty Insurance. To date, all but seven of our securitizations in the United States have utilized financial guaranty insurance policies provided by various monoline insurance providers in order to achieve triple-A ratings on the insured securities issued in our securitization transactions. These ratings reduce the costs of securitizations relative to alternative forms of financing available to us and have historically enhanced the marketability of these transactions to investors in asset-backed securities. 21 Table of Contents During fiscal 2008, the credit ratings of several of the monoline insurance providers were downgraded. Financial Security Assurance, Inc. (“FSA”), historically the most active bond insurance provider in our securitization program, announced that it was ceasing to issue new insurance policies in connection with asset-backed securities. As a result of these downgrades, which weakened investor demand for insured asset-backed securities, and FSA’s decision to stop issuing financial guaranty insurance on asset-backed securities, our ability to utilize financial guaranty insurance policies in our securitization program has effectively ceased for the foreseeable future. The inability to issue or market to investors insured securitization transactions could have a material adverse effect on the cost and availability of capital to finance contract purchases which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Utilization of Senior Subordinated Securitization Structures. In seven of our securitizations in the United States, in lieu of relying on a financial guaranty insurance policy, we have sold or retained subordinate asset-backed securities in order to provide credit enhancement for the senior asset-backed securities. Due to the diminished viability of financial guaranty insurance policies, we anticipate attempting to utilize senior subordinated securitization structures for the foreseeable future and likely throughout 2009. In a senior subordinated securitization we currently expect initial credit enhancement to be in the mid-20% range increasing to a higher level of targeted credit enhancement. These enhancement levels are higher than required in our most recent insured transaction, our 2008-A-F securitization insured by FSA, in which initial enhancement was 20.5% increasing to a target of 24.5%. The larger credit enhancement requirement in senior subordinated securitizations could adversely impact our ability to execute securitization transactions and may affect the timing of such securitizations given the increased amount of liquidity necessary to fund credit enhancement requirements. This, in turn, may adversely impact our ability to opportunistically access the capital markets when conditions are more favorable. Additionally, we expect that the higher rated, or triple-A, securities to be sold by us in a senior subordinated securitization will comprise approximately 70-75% of the total securities issued. The balance of securities we expect to issue, the subordinated notes rated double-A and single-A, will comprise the remaining 25-30%. So far in 2008, there have been several senior subordinated securitizations executed by other issuers backed by prime auto collateral, but the double-A or single-A rated subordinated securities have generally not been offered for sale, we believe due to weakened investor demand for subordinate securities. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the double-A and single-A rated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, or that the pricing and terms demanded by investors for such securities will be acceptable to us. If we were unable for any reason to sell 22 Table of Contents the double-A and single-A rated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, we would be required to hold such securities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and could cause us to have to curtail or suspend loan origination activities. In order to induce investors to purchase double-A and single-A rated securities in a senior subordinated securitization, we may find it necessary to pay other forms of consideration in addition to the interest coupons on the securities, including upfront commitment fees and warrants to acquire our common stock. The amount of such consideration, if provided, may be material and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and, in the case of warrants to acquire our common stock, could be dilutive to existing shareholders. Liquidity and Capital Needs. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, capital markets and other factors that are beyond our control. We expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash. Our primary cash requirements include the funding of: (i) contract purchases pending their securitization; (ii) credit enhancement requirements in connection with the securitization of the receivables and credit facilities; (iii) interest and principal payments under our credit facilities and other indebtedness; (iv) fees and expenses incurred in connection with the securitization and servicing of receivables and credit facilities; (v) ongoing operating expenses; (vi) income tax payments; and (vii) capital expenditures. We require substantial amounts of cash to fund our contract purchase and securitization activities. Although we must fund certain credit enhancement requirements upon the closing of a securitization, we typically receive the cash representing excess cash flows and return of credit enhancement deposits over the actual life of the receivables securitized. The initial credit enhancement requirement will increase in future securitizations, which requires increased use of our cash. We also incur transaction costs in connection with a securitization transaction. Accordingly, our strategy of securitizing our newly purchased receivables will require significant amounts of cash. Our primary sources of future liquidity are expected to be: (i) distributions received from securitization Trusts; (ii) interest and principal payments on loans not yet securitized; (iii) servicing fees; (iv) borrowings under our credit facilities or proceeds from securitization transactions; and (v) further issuances of other debt or equity securities. 23 Table of Contents Because we expect to continue to require substantial amounts of cash for the foreseeable future, we anticipate that we will require the execution of additional securitization transactions and may choose to enter into other additional debt or equity financings. The type, timing and terms of financing selected by us will be dependent upon our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and the prevailing conditions in the capital markets. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that the funding will be on acceptable terms. If we are unable to execute securitization transactions on a regular basis, we would not have sufficient funds to finance new loan originations and, in such event, we would be required to revise the scale of our business, including possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. Leverage. We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including the performance of receivables transferred to securitization Trusts, and our ability to enter into additional securitization transactions as well as other debt or equity financings, which, to a certain extent, are subject to economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, capital markets and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancings will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. The degree to which we are leveraged creates risks including: (i) we may be unable to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness; (ii) we may find it more difficult to fund future credit enhancement requirements, operating costs, income tax payments, capital expenditures, or general corporate expenditures; (iii) we may have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to the payments on our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and (iv) we may be vulnerable to adverse general economic, capital markets and industry conditions. Our credit facilities require us to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants. Additionally, our credit facilities have minimum asset quality maintenance requirements. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other necessary or desirable business activities. As of June 30, 2008, we were in compliance with all financial and portfolio performance covenants in our credit facilities and senior note and convertible senior note indentures. 24 Table of Contents If we cannot comply with the requirements in our credit facilities, then the lenders may increase our borrowing costs or require us to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt. If our debt payments were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. These lenders may require us to use all of our available cash to repay our debt, foreclose upon their collateral or prevent us from making payments to other creditors on certain portions of our outstanding debt. These events may also result in a default under our senior note and convertible senior note indentures. We may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance our debt, if needed. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would materially suffer. Default and Prepayment Risks. Our results of financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations depend, to a material extent, on the performance of loans in our portfolio. Obligors under contracts acquired or originated by us may default during the term of their loan. Generally, we bear the full risk of losses resulting from defaults. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. We maintain an allowance for loan losses on loans held on our balance sheet which reflects management’s estimates of inherent losses for these loans. If the allowance is inadequate, we would recognize the losses in excess of that allowance as an expense and results of operations would be adversely affected. A material adjustment to our allowance for loan losses and the corresponding decrease in earnings could limit our ability to enter into future securitizations and other financings, thus impairing our ability to finance our business. We are required to deposit substantial amounts of the cash flows generated by our interests in securitizations sponsored by us to satisfy targeted credit enhancement requirements. An increase in defaults would reduce the cash flows generated by our interests in securitization transactions lengthening the period required to build targeted credit enhancement levels in the securitization trusts. Distributions of cash from the securitizations to us would be delayed and the ultimate amount of cash distributable to us would be less, which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The targeted credit enhancement levels in future securitizations will also likely be increased, further impacting our liquidity. Portfolio Performance - Negative Impact on Cash Flows. Generally, the form of agreements we have entered into with our financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions contain specified limits on 25 Table of Contents portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss) on the receivables included in each securitization Trust. If, at any measurement date, a portfolio performance ratio with respect to any Trust were to exceed the specified limits, provisions of the credit enhancement agreement would automatically increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that Trust if a waiver was not obtained. During the period in which the specified portfolio performance ratio was exceeded, excess cash flows, if any, from the Trust would be used to fund the increased credit enhancement levels instead of being distributed to us, which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. Our securitization transactions insured by some of our financial guaranty insurance providers are cross-collateralized to a limited extent. In the event of a shortfall in the original target credit enhancement requirement for any of these securitization Trusts after a certain period of time, excess cash flows from other transactions insured by the same insurance provider would be used to satisfy the shortfall amount. During fiscal 2008 and as of June 30, 2008, three LBAC securitizations (LB2006-A, LB2006-B and LB2007-A) had delinquency ratios in excess of the targeted levels. As part of an arrangement with the insurer of these transactions, the excess cash flows from our other securitizations insured by this insurer were used to fund higher credit enhancement requirements in the LBAC Trusts which exceeded the portfolio performance ratios. As of June 30, 2008, we have reached the higher required credit enhancement levels in these three LBAC Trusts. During fiscal 2008, we entered into an agreement with an insurer to increase the portfolio performance ratios in the 2007-2-M securitization. In return for higher portfolio performance ratios, we agreed to use excess cash flow from other securitizations insured by this insurer to fund the higher credit enhancement requirement for the 2007-2-M Trust. As of June 30, 2008, we have reached the higher required credit enhancement in this Trust. Right to Terminate Servicing. The agreements that we have entered into with our financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions contain additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss) that are higher than the limits referred to in the preceding risk factor. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these additional levels, provisions of the agreements permit the financial guaranty insurance providers to terminate our servicing rights to the receivables sold to that Trust. In addition, the servicing agreements on certain insured securitization Trusts are cross-defaulted so that a default under one servicing agreement would allow the financial guaranty insurance provider to terminate our servicing rights under all servicing agreements for securitization Trusts in which they issued a financial guaranty insurance policy. Additionally, if these higher targeted 26 Table of Contents portfolio performance levels were exceeded, the financial guaranty insurance providers may elect to retain all excess cash generated by other securitization transactions insured by them as additional credit enhancement. This, in turn, could result in defaults under our other securitizations and other material indebtedness, including under our senior note and convertible note indentures. Although we have never exceeded these additional targeted portfolio performance ratios, and do not anticipate violating any event of default triggers for our securitizations, there can be no assurance that our servicing rights with respect to the automobile receivables in such Trusts or any other Trusts will not be terminated if (i) such targeted portfolio performance ratios are breached, (ii) we breach our obligations under the servicing agreements, (iii) the financial guaranty insurance providers are required to make payments under a policy, or (iv) certain bankruptcy or insolvency events were to occur. As of June 30, 2008, no such servicing right termination events have occurred with respect to any of the Trusts formed by us. The termination of any or all of our servicing rights would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Implementation of Business Strategy. Our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations depend on management’s ability to execute our business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of the business strategy include achieving the desired loan origination volume, continued and successful use of proprietary scoring models for credit risk assessment and risk-based pricing, the use of effective credit risk management techniques and servicing strategies, implementation of effective loan servicing and collection practices, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency, and continued access to significant funding and liquidity sources. Our failure or inability to execute any element of our business strategy could materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. Target Consumer Base. A substantial portion of our loan purchasing and servicing activities involve sub-prime automobile receivables. Sub-prime borrowers are associated with higher-than-average delinquency and default rates. While we believe that we effectively manage these risks with our proprietary credit scoring system, risk-based loan pricing and other underwriting policies and collection methods, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will be effective in the future. In the event that we underestimate the default risk or under-price contracts that we purchase, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations would be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. Economic Conditions. We are subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond our control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the United States and Canadian economies are currently experiencing, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally 27 Table of Contents increase. These periods also may be accompanied by increased unemployment rates, decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which repossessed automobiles may be sold or delay the timing of these sales. Additionally, higher gasoline prices, unstable real estate values, reset of adjustable rate mortgages to higher interest rates, increasing unemployment levels, general availability of consumer credit or other factors that impact consumer confidence or disposable income could increase loss frequency and decrease consumer demand for automobiles as well as weaken collateral values on certain types of automobiles. Because we focus predominantly on sub-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we seek to manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to sub-prime borrowers through the underwriting criteria and collection methods we employ, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations and our ability to enter into future securitizations and future credit facilities. Wholesale Auction Values. We sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States and Canada. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown or recession will result in higher credit losses for us. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. Additionally, higher gasoline prices may decrease the wholesale auction value of certain types of vehicles as evidenced by recent declines in wholesale values of large sport utility vehicles and trucks. Our net recoveries as a percentage of repossession charge-offs was 45% in fiscal 2008, 49% in fiscal 2007 and 48% in fiscal 2006. There can be no assurance that our recovery rates will remain at current levels. Interest Rates. Our profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affects the gross interest rate spread we earn on our receivables. As the level of interest rates change, our gross interest rate spread on new originations either increases or decreases 28 Table of Contents since the rates charged on the contracts originated or purchased from dealers are limited by market and competitive conditions, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs to the consumer. We believe that our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could be adversely affected during any period of higher interest rates, possibly to a material degree. We monitor the interest rate environment and employ hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. We can provide no assurance, however, that hedging strategies will mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. Leucadia Ownership. As of June 30, 2008, Leucadia National Corp. (“Leucadia”) owned 26% of our outstanding common stock and had two members on our Board of Directors. As a result, Leucadia could exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and make some transactions more difficult without the support of Leucadia. Labor Market Conditions. Competition to hire and retain personnel possessing the skills and experience required by us could contribute to an increase in our employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our delinquency, default and net loss rates, our ability to grow and, ultimately, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. Data Integrity. If third parties or our employees are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or loan information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or loan information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses or losses of personal information, including for unauthorized marketing purposes. Other liabilities could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could subject us to liability, decrease our profitability, and damage our reputation. Regulation. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business – Regulation” for a discussion of regulatory risk factors. Competition. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business – Competition” for a discussion of competitive risk factors. 29 Table of Contents Litigation. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of finance contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities. However, any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 