Risk Factors Dependence on Warehouse Financing. The Company depends on various credit facilities with financial institutions to finance its purchase of contracts pending securitization. At June 30, 2005, the Company had four separate credit facilities, including (i) a warehouse credit facility with various financial institutions providing for available borrowings of up to a total of approximately $1,950.0 million, subject to a defined borrowing base, of which $150.0 million matures in November 2005 and the remaining $1,800.0 million matures in November 2007; (ii) a medium term note facility with an administrative agent on behalf of an institutionally managed medium term note conduit that in the aggregate provides $650.0 million of receivables financing which matures in October 2007; (iii) a repurchase facility pursuant to which the Company can finance the repurchase of finance receivables from securitization Trusts upon exercise of the cleanup call option. This repurchase facility provides $400.0 million of receivables financing. Subsequent to June 30, 2005, the Company amended the agreement to increase the facility limit to $500.0 million and extended its maturity to August 2006; and (iv) a near prime facility to fund higher credit quality receivables, providing $150.0 million of receivables financing which matures in January 2006. Subsequent to June 30, 2005, the Company amended the agreement to increase the facility limit to $400.0 million and extended its maturity to July 2006. The Company cannot guarantee that any of these financing resources will continue to be available beyond the current maturity dates at reasonable terms or at all. The availability of these financing sources depends, in part, on factors outside of the Company’s control, including regulatory capital treatment for unfunded bank lines of credit and the availability of bank liquidity in general. If the Company is unable to extend or replace these facilities or arrange new warehouse credit facilities or other types of interim financing, it will have to curtail contract purchasing activities, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s warehouse credit facilities contain various covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (cumulative net loss, delinquency and repossession ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests 11 Table of Contents against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict the Company’s ability to obtain additional borrowings under these agreements. As of June 30, 2005, the Company’s warehouse credit facilities were in compliance with all covenants. Dependence on Securitization Program. Since December 1994, the Company has relied upon its ability to transfer receivables to securitization Trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of warehouse credit facilities and to purchase additional contracts from automobile dealers. Accordingly, adverse changes in the Company’s asset-backed securities program or in the asset-backed securities market for automobile receivables in general could materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to purchase and securitize loans on a timely basis and upon terms reasonably favorable to the Company. Any adverse change or delay would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The Company will continue to require the execution of securitization transactions in order to fund the Company’s future liquidity needs. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to the Company through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to the Company. If these sources of funding are not available to the Company on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience on the receivables, breach of financial covenants, disruption of the asset-backed market or otherwise, the Company will be required to revise the scale of its business, including the possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its business and financial objectives. Dependence on Credit Enhancement. To date, all but five of the Company’s securitizations in the United States have utilized credit enhancement in the form of financial guaranty insurance policies provided by various monoline insurance providers in order to achieve AAA/Aaa ratings on the insured securities issued in the securitization transactions. These ratings may reduce the costs of securitizations relative to alternative forms of financing available to the Company and enhance the marketability of these transactions to investors in asset-backed securities. However, the financial guaranty insurance providers are not required to insure future Company-sponsored securitizations, and there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so or that future Company-sponsored securitizations will be similarly rated. The Company’s insurance providers’ willingness to insure the Company’s future securitizations is subject to many factors beyond the Company’s control, including concentrations of risk with any given insurance provider, the insurance providers’ own rating considerations, their ability to cede this risk to reinsurers and the performance of the portion of the Company’s portfolio for which the insurer has provided insurance. Alternatively, in lieu of relying on a financial guaranty insurance policy, in five of its securitizations in the United States, the Company has sold or retained subordinate asset-backed securities in order to provide credit enhancement for the senior asset-backed securities. A downgrading of any of the Company’s insurance providers’ credit ratings, an increase in required credit enhancement levels or the inability to structure alternative credit enhancements, such as senior subordinated transactions, for the Company’s securitization program could result in higher interest costs for future Company-sponsored securitizations and larger initial credit enhancement requirements. The absence of a financial guaranty insurance policy may also impair the marketability of the Company’s securitizations. These events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Needs. The Company’s ability to make payments on or to refinance its indebtedness and to fund its operations and planned capital expenditures depends on its ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. The Company expects to continue to require substantial amounts of cash. The Company’s primary cash requirements include the funding of: (i) contract purchases pending their securitization; (ii) credit enhancement 12 Table of Contents requirements in connection with the securitization of the receivables; (iii) interest and principal payments under the Company’s warehouse credit facilities, its senior notes and other indebtedness; (iv) fees and expenses incurred in connection with the securitization and servicing of receivables; (v) ongoing operating expenses; (vi) income tax payments; and (vii) capital expenditures. Additionally, the Company has been using excess cash to fund its stock repurchase program since April 2004; to the extent the Company was unable to generate sufficient cash to fund the aforementioned items, it is anticipated that stock repurchases would be curtailed or discontinued. The Company requires substantial amounts of cash to fund its contract purchase and securitization activities. Although the Company must fund certain credit enhancement requirements upon the closing of a securitization, it typically receives the cash representing excess cash flows and return of credit enhancement deposits over the actual life of the receivables securitized. Assuming that origination volume ranges from $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion in fiscal 2006 and the initial credit enhancement requirement for the Company’s securitization transactions remains at 9.5% (the level for the most recent securitization completed in August 2005), the Company would require $551.0 million to $589.0 million in cash or liquidity to fund initial credit enhancement in fiscal 2006. The initial credit enhancement requirement could increase in future securitizations, which would result in an increased requirement for cash on the Company’s part. The Company also incurs transaction costs in connection with a securitization transaction. Accordingly, the Company’s strategy of securitizing substantially all of its newly purchased receivables will require significant amounts of cash. The Company’s primary sources of future liquidity are expected to be: (i) excess cash flows received from securitization Trusts; (ii) interest and principal payments on loans not yet securitized; (iii) servicing fees; (iv) borrowings under its warehouse credit facilities or proceeds from securitization transactions; (v) further issuances of debt or equity securities; and (vi) stock option exercises, depending on capital market conditions. Because the Company expects to continue to require substantial amounts of cash for the foreseeable future, it anticipates that it will require the execution of additional securitization transactions and may choose to enter into debt or equity financings. The type, timing and terms of financing selected by the Company will be dependent upon its cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and the prevailing conditions in the financial markets. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to the Company through these sources or, if available, that the funding will be on acceptable terms. If the Company is unable to execute securitization transactions on a regular basis, it would not have sufficient funds to finance new loan originations and, in such event, the Company would be required to revise the scale of its business, including possible discontinuation of loan origination activities, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to achieve its business and financial objectives. Leverage. The Company currently has a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. The Company’s ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, its indebtedness will depend on its future operating performance, including the performance of receivables transferred to securitization Trusts, and its ability to enter into additional securitization transactions as well as debt and equity financings, which, to a certain extent, is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond its control. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service its debt, it may be required to refinance all or a portion of its existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancings will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The degree to which the Company is leveraged creates risks including: (i) the Company may be unable to satisfy its obligations under its outstanding indebtedness; (ii) the Company may find it more difficult to fund future credit enhancement requirements, operating costs, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; (iii) the Company may have to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash resources to the payments on its outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for 13 Table of Contents operations and future business opportunities; and (iv) the Company may be vulnerable to adverse general economic and industry conditions. The Company’s existing outstanding indebtedness restricts its ability to, among other things: (i) sell or transfer assets; (ii) incur additional debt; (iii) repay other debt; (iv) pay dividends; (v) make certain investments or acquisitions; (vi) repurchase or redeem capital stock; (vii) engage in mergers or consolidations; and (viii) engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. The Company’s warehouse credit facilities and senior note and convertible senior note indentures require the Company to comply with certain financial ratios and covenants. Additionally, the Company’s warehouse credit facilities have minimum asset quality maintenance requirements. These restrictions may interfere with the Company’s ability to obtain financing or to engage in other necessary or desirable business activities. As of June 30, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all financial and portfolio performance covenants on its warehouse credit facilities and senior note and convertible senior note indentures. If the Company cannot comply with the requirements in its warehouse credit facilities or its senior note and convertible senior note indentures, then the lenders may increase the Company’s borrowing costs or require it to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt under them. If its debt payments were accelerated, the Company’s assets might not be sufficient to fully repay the debt. These lenders may require the Company to use all of its available cash to repay its debt, foreclose upon their collateral or prevent the Company from making payments to other creditors on certain portions of the Company’s outstanding debt. These events may also result in a default under the Company’s senior note and convertible senior note indentures. The Company may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance its debt, if needed. In such case, the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would suffer. Default and Prepayment Risks. The Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity depend, to a material extent, on the performance of contracts purchased. Obligors under contracts acquired or originated by the Company may default during the term of their loan. The Company bears the full risk of losses resulting from defaults. In the event of a default, the collateral value of the financed vehicle usually does not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of recovery. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses on loans held on the Company’s balance sheet which reflects management’s estimates of inherent losses for these loans. If the allowance is inadequate, the Company would recognize the losses in excess of that allowance as an expense and results of operations could be adversely affected. A large component of the gain recognized on the sale of finance receivables to securitization Trusts prior to October 1, 2002, and the corresponding retained interest recorded on the Company’s balance sheet as credit enhancement assets consisting of investments in Trust receivables, or overcollateralization, restricted cash and interest-only receivables from Trusts are based on estimated future cash flows. Credit enhancement assets are calculated on the basis of management’s assumptions concerning, among other things, defaults and recovery rates on repossessed vehicles. As of June 30, 2005, credit enhancement assets were valued at $541.8 million. The Company regularly measures its default, recovery and other assumptions against the actual performance of securitized receivables. If the Company were to determine, as a result of such regular review or otherwise, that it underestimated defaults, overestimated recoveries or that any other material assumptions were inaccurate, the Company would be required to reduce the carrying value of its credit enhancement assets. If the change in assumptions and the impact of the change on the value of the credit enhancement assets were deemed other-than-temporary, the Company would record a charge to income. Although the Company believes that it has made reasonable assumptions as to the future cash flows of the various pools of receivables that have been sold in securitization transactions, actual rates of default and recovery rates on repossessed vehicles or other assumptions may differ from those assumed and may be required to be revised upon future events. 14 Table of Contents The Company is required to deposit substantial amounts of the cash flows generated by its interests in Company-sponsored securitizations to satisfy targeted credit enhancement requirements. An increase in defaults or prepayments would reduce the cash flows generated by the Company’s interests in securitization transactions lengthening the period required to build targeted credit enhancement levels in the securitization trusts. Distributions of cash from the securitizations to the Company would be delayed and the ultimate amount of cash distributable to the Company would be less, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The targeted credit enhancement levels in future securitizations could also be increased, further impacting the Company’s liquidity. In addition, an increase in defaults or prepayments would reduce the size of the Company’s servicing portfolio, which would reduce the Company’s servicing income from its gain on sale receivables and finance charge income on its finance receivables, further adversely affecting results of operations and cash flows. A material write-down of credit enhancement assets or adjustment to the Company’s allowance for loan losses and the corresponding decrease in earnings could limit the Company’s ability to enter into future securitizations and other financings. Portfolio Performance—Negative Impact on Cash Flows. Generally, the form of credit enhancement agreements the Company enters into with its financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions contain specified limits on portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss triggers) on the receivables included in each securitization Trust. If, at any measurement date, a portfolio performance ratio with respect to any Trust were to exceed the specified limits, provisions of the credit enhancement agreement would automatically increase the level of credit enhancement requirements for that Trust, if a waiver was not obtained. During the period in which the specified portfolio performance ratio was exceeded, excess cash flows, if any, from the Trust would be used to fund the increased credit enhancement levels instead of being distributed to the Company, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows. The Company’s securitization transactions insured by financial guaranty insurance providers, including FSA, since October 2002 are cross-collateralized to a limited extent. In the event of a shortfall in the original target credit enhancement requirement for any of these securitization Trusts after a certain period of time, excess cash flows from other transactions insured by the same insurance provider would be used to satisfy the shortfall amount. In one of the Company’s securitization transactions, if a secured party receives a notice of a rating agency review for downgrade or if there is a downgrade of any class of notes (without taking into consideration the presence of the financial guaranty insurance policy) excess cash flows from other securitization transactions insured by the same insurance provider would be utilized to satisfy any increased target credit enhancement requirements. As of June 30, 2005, the Company had exceeded its targeted cumulative net loss triggers in six of the seven remaining FSA Program securitizations. Accordingly, cash of approximately $120.3 million generated by FSA Program securitizations otherwise distributable to the Company was used to fund increased credit enhancement levels for the securitizations that breached their cumulative net loss triggers. The higher targeted credit enhancement levels have been reached and maintained in each of these six FSA Program securitizations. The remaining FSA Program securitization breached its cumulative net loss trigger as of June 30, 2005, and FSA granted a waiver. Additionally, the Company received a waiver for July and August 2005, however, the Company cannot guarantee that FSA will continue to grant a waiver; if a waiver is not granted, the credit enhancement level for such securitization would have increased by $21.2 million as of August 31, 2005. The impact of any delay in the amount of cash to be released to the Company during fiscal 2006 is not expected to be material to the Company’s liquidity position. Right to Terminate Normal Servicing. The agreements that the Company enters into with its financial guaranty insurance providers in connection with securitization transactions contain additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss triggers) that are higher than the limits referred to in the preceding risk factor. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured Trust were to exceed these additional levels, provisions of the agreements permit the financial guaranty insurance providers to terminate the Company’s servicing rights to the 15 Table of Contents receivables sold to that Trust. In addition, the servicing agreements on certain insured securitization Trusts are cross-defaulted so that a default under one servicing agreement would allow the financial guaranty insurance provider to terminate the Company’s servicing rights under all servicing agreements for securitization Trusts in which they issued a financial guaranty insurance policy. Additionally, if these higher targeted portfolio performance levels were exceeded, the financial guaranty insurance providers may elect to retain all excess cash generated by other securitization transactions insured by them as additional credit enhancement. This, in turn, could result in defaults under the Company’s other securitizations and other material indebtedness. Although the Company has never exceeded these additional targeted portfolio performance ratios, and does not anticipate violating any event of default triggers for its securitizations, there can be no assurance that the Company’s servicing rights with respect to the automobile receivables in such Trusts or any other Trusts will not be terminated if (i) such targeted portfolio performance ratios are breached, (ii) the Company breaches its obligations under the servicing agreements, (iii) the financial guaranty insurance providers are required to make payments under a policy, or (iv) certain bankruptcy or insolvency events were to occur. As of June 30, 2005, no such termination events have occurred with respect to any of the Trusts formed by the Company. The termination of any or all of the Company’s servicing rights would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Implementation of Business Strategy. The Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations depend on management’s ability to execute its business strategy. Key factors involved in the execution of the business strategy include achieving the desired contract purchase volume, continued and successful use of proprietary scoring models for credit risk assessment and risk-based pricing, the use of effective credit risk management techniques and servicing strategies, implementation of effective loan servicing and collection practices, continued investment in technology to support operating efficiency and continued access to significant funding and liquidity sources. The failure or inability of the Company to execute any element of its business strategy could materially adversely affect its financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Target Consumer Base. The Company specializes in purchasing and servicing predominately sub-prime automobile receivables. Sub-prime borrowers are associated with higher-than-average delinquency and default rates. While the Company believes that it effectively manages these risks with its proprietary credit scoring system, risk-based loan pricing and other underwriting policies and collection methods, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will be effective in the future. In the event that the Company underestimates the default risk or under-prices contracts that it purchases, the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be adversely affected, possibly to a material degree. Economic Conditions. The Company is subject to changes in general economic conditions that are beyond its control. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, such as the United States economy has at times experienced, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses generally increase. These periods also may be accompanied by decreased consumer demand for automobiles and declining values of automobiles securing outstanding loans, which weakens collateral coverage and increases the amount of a loss in the event of default. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which repossessed automobiles may be sold or delay the timing of these sales. Additionally, higher gasoline prices or other factors that impact consumer confidence or disposable income could decrease consumer demand for automobiles as well as weaken collateral values on certain types of automobiles. Because the Company focuses on sub-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be more dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, during an economic slowdown or recession, the Company’s servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in its servicing income or finance charge income. While the Company seeks to manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to sub-prime borrowers through the underwriting criteria and collection methods it employs, no assurance can be given that these criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against these risks. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults, repossessions or losses or increased servicing costs could also adversely affect the Company’s financial position, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to enter into future securitizations. 16 Table of Contents Wholesale Auction Values. The Company sells repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States and Canada. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries are usually not sufficient to cover the outstanding balance of the contract, and the resulting deficiency is charged off. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown or recession will result in higher credit losses for the Company. Furthermore, depressed wholesale prices for used automobiles may result from significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories, and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. Additionally, higher gasoline prices may decrease the wholesale auction value of certain types of vehicles. The Company’s recoveries as a percentage of repossession charge-offs was 43% in fiscal 2005, 41% in fiscal 2004 and 42% in fiscal 2003, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s recovery rates will remain at historical levels. Interest Rates. The Company’s profitability may be directly affected by the level of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affects the gross interest rate spread the Company earns on its receivables. As the level of interest rates increase, such as they have throughout calendar 2005, the Company’s gross interest rate spread on new originations generally declines since the rates charged on the contracts originated or purchased from dealers are limited by market and competitive conditions, restricting the Company’s opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. The Company believes that its profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected during any period of higher interest rates, possibly to a material degree. Further, the Company anticipates that the level of interest rates, and its borrowing costs, will likely increase throughout fiscal 2006. The Company monitors the interest rate environment and employs pre-funding and other hedging strategies designed to mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. The Company can provide no assurance, however, that pre-funding or other hedging strategies will mitigate the impact of increases in interest rates. Labor Market Conditions. Competition to hire personnel possessing the skills and experience required by the Company could contribute to an increase in the Company’s employee turnover rate. High turnover or an inability to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company’s delinquency, default and net loss rates, the Company’s ability to grow and, ultimately, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Regulation. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business—Regulation” for a discussion of regulatory risk factors. Competition. Reference should be made to Item 1. “Business—Competition” for a discussion of competitive risk factors. Litigation. As a consumer finance company, the Company is subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against the Company could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of finance contracts originated by dealers, the Company may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. The Company believes that it has taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with its business activities. However, any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against the Company, including the matters referenced in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Employees At June 30, 2005, the Company employed 3,653 persons in 43 states and one Canadian province. None of the Company’s employees are a part of a collective bargaining agreement, and the Company’s relationships with employees are satisfactory. 17 Table of Contents Executive Officers The following sets forth certain data concerning the executive officers of the Company as of June 30, 2005. Name Age Position Clifton H. Morris, Jr. 69 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Daniel E. Berce 51 President Steven P. Bowman 38 Executive Vice President, Chief Credit and Risk Officer Chris A. Choate 42 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Mark Floyd 52 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer—Servicing Preston A. Miller 41 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer—Originations CLIFTON H. MORRIS, JR. has been Chairman of the Board since May 1988 and has served as Chief Executive Officer from April 2003 to August 2005 and from May 1988 to July 2000. He also served as President from May 1988 until April 1991 and from April 1992 to November 1996. Mr. Morris joined the Company in 1988. Subsequent to June 30, 2005, Mr. Morris was succeeded by Mr. Berce as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Morris retained his position as Chairman of the Board. DANIEL E. BERCE has been President since April 2003. Mr. Berce was Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer from November 1996 until April 2003. He served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from November 1994 until November 1996. Mr. Berce joined the Company in 1990. Subsequent to June 30, 2005, Mr. Berce was named President and Chief Executive Officer. STEVEN P. BOWMAN has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Credit and Risk Officer since January 2005. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer from March 2000 to January 2005. He served as Senior Vice President, Risk Management from May 1998 until March 2000 and was Vice President, Risk Management from June 1997 until May 1998. From February 1996, when he joined the Company, until June 1997, Mr. Bowman was Assistant Vice President, Risk Management. CHRIS A. CHOATE has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since January 2005. Before that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from November 1999 to January 2005. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from November 1996 to November 1999. Mr. Choate was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from November 1994 until November 1996. Mr. Choate joined the Company in 1991. MARK FLOYD has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer for Servicing since January 2005. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer from April 2003 to January 2005. He served as President, Dealer Services from August 2001 until April 2003. Mr. Floyd served as Executive Vice President, Dealer Services from November 1999 to August 2001 and was Senior Vice President, Director Strategic Alliance from January 1998 to November 1999. He was Senior Vice President, Strategic Alliances from September 1997, when he joined the Company, to January 1998. PRESTON A. MILLER has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer for Originations since January 2005. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from April 2003 to January 2005. Mr. Miller was Executive Vice President, Treasurer from July 1998 until April 2003. He served as Senior Vice President, Treasurer from November 1996 until July 1998 and Vice President, Controller from November 1994 until November 1996. Mr. Miller joined the Company in 1989. Available Information The Company makes available free of charge through its website, www.americredit.com, securitization portfolio performance measures and all materials that it files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, 18 Table of Contents current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practical after filing or furnishing such material with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 