RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements based on the Company’s current expectations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of operations and financial condition. Statements that contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will,” or similar expressions may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and many factors could affect the future financial results and condition of the Company. Factors that may have a material effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results include adverse business or market conditions, the Company’s ability to secure and satisfy customers, the availability and cost of materials from suppliers, adverse competitive developments and changes in customer requirements as well as those circumstances discussed under “Risk Factors,” below. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are based on current assumptions that the Company will continue to develop, market, manufacture, and ship products and provide services on a competitive and timely basis, that competitive conditions in the Company’s markets will not change in a materially adverse way, that the Company will accurately identify and meet customer needs for products and services, that the Company will be able to retain and hire key employees, that the Company’s capabilities will remain competitive, that risks related to shifts in customer demand are minimized and that there will be no material adverse change in the operations or business of the Company. Assumptions relating to these factors involve judgments that are based on available information, which may not be complete, and are subject to changes in many factors beyond the control of the Company that can materially affect results. Because of these and other factors that affect our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below. While we believe that the risks and uncertainties described below are the more significant risks and uncertainties facing our business, they are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the discussion under Forward-Looking Statements, above. Our industry is highly competitive Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products or services at lower rates than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. 2 Table of Contents An economic downturn may lead to lower demand for our services If the general level of economic activity deteriorates from current levels, our customers may delay or cancel new projects. A number of factors, including financing conditions for and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the industries we serve may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. International and political events may adversely affect our operations International sales accounted for approximately 25% of our revenues in fiscal 2005, including sales from our operations in the United Kingdom which were acquired in July 2005. We primarily operate in developed countries with stable operating and fiscal environments. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition: • political and economic instability; • social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; • inflation; • currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds; and • trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials used to manufacture our products may reduce our profits Our raw material costs represented approximately 51% of our revenues in fiscal 2005. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials to manufacture our products including steel, aluminum, copper, and various electrical components. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. Our dependence upon fixed-price contracts could adversely affect our business We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed-price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks We intend to pursue growth through the pursuit of opportunities to acquire companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings. We routinely review potential acquisitions. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company; • a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business; 3 Table of Contents • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting; • risks and liabilities from our acquisitions, some of which may not be discovered during our due diligence; • a disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention; and • a failure to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs, primarily labor. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Actual collection of contract amounts or change orders could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog We have a backlog of work to be completed on contracts. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business taken, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects are canceled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new business taken. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, canceled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting underutilization of our assets. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: • the timing and volume of work under new agreements; • general economic conditions; • the budgetary spending patterns of customers; • variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; • losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; • a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions; • a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; 4 Table of Contents • increases in design and manufacturing costs; and • ability of customers to pay their invoices owed to us. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: • attract new customers; • increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers; • hire and retain employees; and • increase volume utilizing our existing facilities. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We develop, design, manufacture, and service equipment and systems for the management and control of electrical energy and other critical processes. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we serve the transportation, environmental, industrial, and utility industries. Powell Industries, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our,” “Powell,” or the “Company”) was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 2004 as a successor to a Nevada company incorporated in 1968. The Nevada corporation was the successor to a company founded by William E. Powell in 1947, which merged into the Company in 1977. Our major subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, include: Powell Electrical Systems, Inc., Transdyn, Inc., Powell Industries International, Inc., Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited, and Switchgear & Instrumentation Properties Limited. Our website address is www.powellind.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Paper or electronic copies of such material may also be requested by contacting the Company at our corporate offices. Our business operations are consolidated into two business segments: Electrical Power Products and Process Control Systems. Approximately 75%, 86% and 84% of our consolidated revenues for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were generated in the United States of America. Approximately 84% of our long-lived assets were located in the United States at October 31, 2005, with the remaining balance located primarily in the United Kingdom. Financial information related to our business and geographical segments is included in Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On July 4, 2005, we acquired selected assets and assumed certain operating liabilities and contracts of Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited in the United Kingdom. We refer to the acquired business herein as “S&I.” The operating results of S&I are included in our Electrical Power Products segment from that date. Total consideration paid for S&I was approximately $19.2 million of which approximately $10.3 million of the purchase price was funded from existing cash and investments and the balance was provided through additional debt financing. For further information on our S&I acquisition, see Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Electrical Power Products Our Electrical Power Products segment designs, manufactures, and markets engineered-to-order electrical power management systems designed (1) to distribute, monitor, and control the flow of electrical energy and (2) to provide protection to motors, transformers and other electrically powered equipment. Our principal products include offshore modules, power control room packages, switchgear, motor control centers and bus duct systems. These products are designed for application voltages ranging from 480 volts to in excess of 36,000 volts and are used in the transportation, industrial, and utility markets. On July 4, 2005, we acquired selected assets and assumed selected operating liabilities and contracts of Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited in the United Kingdom, as described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview. S&I’s primary manufacturing facility is in the United Kingdom. This acquisition is part of the Company’s overall strategy to increase its international presence. S&I affords Powell the opportunity to serve customers with products covering a wider range of electrical standards and opens new geographic markets previously closed due to our lack of product portfolio that met international electrical standards. The fit, culture and market position of Powell and S&I are favorably comparable with similar reputations in engineered-to-order solutions. 6 Table of Contents Customers and Markets This segment’s principal products are designed for use by and marketed to sophisticated users of large amounts of electrical energy. Our customers include oil and gas producers, oil and gas pipelines, refineries, petrochemical plants, electrical power generators, public and private utilities, mining, pulp and paper mills, transportation systems, governmental agencies, and other large industrial customers. Products and services are principally sold directly to the end-user or to an EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) firm on behalf of the end-user. We market and sell our products and services to a wide variety of customers, markets and geographic regions. During each of the past three fiscal years, we did not have any one customer that accounted for more than 10% of annual segment revenues. Accordingly, we do not believe that the loss of any specific customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we are not dependent upon any one customer for revenues, we could be adversely impacted by a significant reduction in business volume from a particular industry which we currently serve. During each of the past three fiscal years, no one country, except for the United States, accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three years, see Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition Our Electrical Power Products segment operates in a competitive market where competition for each project varies. The competition may include large multinational firms as well as small regional low-cost providers, depending upon the type of project. This segment’s products and systems are engineered-to-order and designed to meet the exact specifications of our customers. Many repeat customers seek our involvement in finding solutions to specific project-related issues including physical size, rating, application, installation, and commissioning. We consider our engineering, manufacturing, and service capabilities vital to the success of our business, and believe our technical and project management strengths, together with our responsiveness and flexibility to the needs of our customers, give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Ultimately, our competitive position is dependent on the ability to provide quality products and systems on a timely basis at a competitive price. Backlog Orders in the Electrical Power Products segment backlog at October 31, 2005, totaled $212.9 million compared to $89.5 million at the end of the previous fiscal year. We anticipate that approximately $160 million of our ending 2005 backlog will be fulfilled during our fiscal year 2006. A portion of the increase in backlog relates to a contract totaling approximately $51 million which will be delivered over a four-year period. This contract is with a municipal agency, and production began in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. However, weak economic conditions caused us to experience some customer delays and cancellations of certain projects during 2004 and 2003. Raw Materials and Suppliers The principal raw materials used in Electrical Power Products’ operations include steel, copper, aluminum, and various electrical components. These raw material costs represented approximately 51% of our revenues in fiscal 2005. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. We purchase certain key electrical components on a sole-source basis and maintain a qualification and performance monitoring program to control risk associated with sole-sourced items. Changes in our design to accommodate similar components from other suppliers could be implemented to resolve a supply problem related to a sole-sourced component. In this circumstance, supply problems could result in short-term delays in our ability to meet commitments to our customers. We believe that sources of supply for raw materials and 7 Table of Contents components are generally sufficient and have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during fiscal year 2006. While we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, we are highly dependent on our suppliers in order to meet commitments to our customers. We did not experience significant or unusual problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in the past three years. Inflation This segment is subject to the effects of changing prices. During fiscal 2004 and 2005, we experienced increased costs for certain commodities, in particular steel, copper and aluminum products, which are used in the production of our products. While the cost outlook for commodities used in production of our products is not certain, we believe we can manage these inflationary pressures through contract pricing adjustments and by actively pursuing internal cost reduction efforts. We have not entered into any derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes in fiscal years 2005, 2004, or 2003. Employees At October 31, 2005, the Electrical Power Products segment had 1,390 full-time employees located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with employees is good. Research and Development This segment’s research and development activities are directed toward the development of new products and processes as well as improvements in existing products and processes. Research and development expenditures were $2.1 million, $2.7 million and $2.9 million in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various patents, trademarks, and licenses relating to this segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. Process Control Systems Our Process Control Systems segment designs and delivers technology solutions that help our customers manage their critical transportation, environmental, energy, industrial and utility facilities. We offer a diverse set of professional services that specialize in the design, integration, and support of high-availability control, security/surveillance, and communications systems. The systems allow our customers to safely and effectively manage their vital processes and facilities. Customers and Markets This segment’s products and services are principally sold directly to end-users in the transportation, environmental, energy, and industrial sectors. We may be dependent on one specific contract or customer for a significant percentage of our revenues due to the nature of large, long-term construction projects common to this segment. For example, during 2003, we received a contract to design and build Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which accounted for 16% of segment revenues in fiscal 2003 and 44% in both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005. In each of the past three fiscal years, we had revenues with one customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of our segment revenues. Revenues from these customers totaled $17.1 million, $14.8 million, and $4.8 million in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our contracts often represent large-scale, single-need projects with an individual customer. By their nature, these projects are typically nonrecurring for those customers, and multiple and/or continuous requirements of similar magnitude with the same customer are rare. Thus, the inability to successfully replace a completed large contract with one or more of combined similar magnitude could have a material adverse effect on segment revenues. 8 Table of Contents During each of the past three fiscal years, no one country, except for the United States, accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three years, see Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition This segment operates in a competitive market where competition for each contract varies. The competition may include large multinational firms, as well as small regional low-cost providers, depending upon the type of system and customer requirements. Our customized systems are designed to meet the specifications of our customers. Each order is designed, delivered, and installed to the unique requirements of the particular application. We consider our engineering, systems integration, installation, and support capabilities vital to the success of our business. We believe our technical, software products, and project management strengths, together with our responsiveness, our flexibility, financial strength, and our over thirty-year history of supporting mission-critical systems give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Backlog Orders in the Process Control Systems segment backlog at October 31, 2005 totaled $46.1 million compared to $44.8 million at the end of the previous fiscal year. We anticipate that approximately $22 million of our ending 2005 backlog will be fulfilled during our fiscal year 2006. As of October 31, 2005, $5.7 million of our ending backlog relates to the ITS contract described in “Customers and Markets,” above. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. We have not experienced a material amount of canceled orders during the past three fiscal years. Employees The Process Control Systems segment had 110 full-time employees at October 31, 2005, all located in the United States. Our employees are not represented by unions and we believe that our relationship with employees is good. Research and Development The majority of research and development activities of this segment are directed toward the development of our software suites for the management and control of the critical processes and facilities of our customers. Research and development expenditures were $0.7 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various copyrights related to software for this segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. 