RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”) includes forward-looking statements based on our current expectations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of operations and financial condition. Statements that contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will” or similar expressions may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and many factors could affect the future financial results and condition of the Company. Factors that may have a material effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results include adverse business or market conditions, our ability to secure and satisfy customers, our customers’ financial condition and their ability to secure financing to support current and future projects, the availability and cost of materials from suppliers, adverse competitive developments and changes in customer requirements as well as those circumstances discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” below. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are based on current assumptions that we will continue to develop, market, manufacture and ship products and provide services on a competitive and timely basis; that competitive conditions in our markets will not change in a materially adverse way; that we will accurately identify and meet customer needs for products and services; that we will be able to retain and hire key employees; that our products and capabilities will remain competitive; that the financial markets and banking systems will stabilize and availability of credit will continue; that risks related to shifts in customer demand are minimized and that there will be no material adverse change in the operations or business of the Company. Assumptions relating to these factors involve judgments that are based on available information, which may not be complete, and are subject to changes in many factors beyond the Company’s control that can materially affect results. Because of these and other factors that affect our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Powell Industries, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our,” “Powell” or the “Company”) was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 2004 as a successor to a Nevada company incorporated in 1968. The Nevada corporation was the successor to a company founded by William E. Powell in 1947, which merged into the Company in 1977. Our major subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned, include: Powell Electrical Systems, Inc.; Transdyn, Inc.; Powell Industries International, Inc.; Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited and Switchgear & Instrumentation Properties Limited. We develop, design, manufacture and service custom engineered-to-order equipment and systems for the management and control of electrical energy and other critical processes. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we serve the transportation, environmental, energy, industrial and utility industries. Our website address is www.powellind.com. We make available, free of charge on or through our website, copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Paper or electronic copies of such material may also be requested by contacting the Company at our corporate offices. On December 13, 2005, we announced a change in our fiscal year-end from October 31 to September 30, effective September 30, 2006. The change was designed to align our financial reporting with calendar quarters and to reduce the impact holidays have on our reporting timeline. Our business operations are consolidated into two business segments: Electrical Power Products and Process Control Systems. Approximately 77%, 73% and 66% of our consolidated revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were generated in the United States of America. Approximately 88% of our long-lived assets were located in the United States at September 30, 2009, with the remaining balance located primarily in the United Kingdom. Financial information related to our business and geographical segments is included in Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On August 7, 2006, we purchased certain assets related to the manufacturing of American National Standards Institute (“ANSI”) medium voltage switchgear and circuit breaker business of General Electric Company’s (“GE”) Consumer & Industrial unit for $32.0 million, not including expenses. We refer to the acquired product line herein as “Power/Vac®.” The operating results of Power/Vac® are included in our Electrical Power Products business segment from the acquisition date. On July 14, 2006, we acquired certain assets and hired the service and administrative employees of an electrical services company in Louisiana for approximately $1.5 million. The purchase price was paid from existing cash and short-term marketable securities. The operating results of this acquisition are included in our Electrical Power Products business segment from the acquisition date. On July 4, 2005, we acquired selected assets and assumed certain operating liabilities and contracts of Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited in the United Kingdom. We refer to the acquired business herein as “S&I.” The operating results of S&I are included in our Electrical Power Products business segment from that date. Total consideration paid for S&I was approximately $19.2 million. Electrical Power Products Our Electrical Power Products business segment designs, develops, manufactures and markets custom engineered-to-order electrical power distribution and control systems designed (1) to distribute, monitor and control the flow of electrical energy and (2) to provide protection to motors, transformers and other electrically-powered equipment. Our principal products include power control room substation packages, traditional and arc resistant distribution switchgear, medium-voltage circuit breakers, offshore generator and control modules, 4 Table of Contents monitoring and control communications systems, motor control centers and bus duct systems. These products are designed for application voltages ranging from 480 volts to in excess of 38,000 volts and are used in electric rail transportation, refining, chemical, offshore oil and gas production, electric utility and other heavy industrial markets. Product scope includes designs tested to meet both U.S. standards (ANSI — American National Standards Institute) and international design standards (IEC — International Electrotechnical Commission). We also seek to assist customers by providing value-added services such as spare parts, field service inspection and repair, retrofit and retrofill components for existing systems and replacement circuit breakers for switchgear that is obsolete or that is no longer produced by the original manufacturer. We work to establish long-term relationships with the end users of our systems and with the design and construction engineering firms contracted by those end users. On August 7, 2006, we purchased the Power/Vac® product line described above. We believe that this acquisition strengthens our strategic position in the electrical power products business and allows us to reach new markets and a broader base of customers. In conjunction with the Power/Vac® acquisition, Powell entered into a long-term commercial alliance with GE Consumer & Industrial whereby Powell became the exclusive supplier of ANSI medium voltage switchgear to GE. On July 14, 2006, we acquired certain assets and hired the service and administrative employees of an electrical services company in Louisiana. This acquisition allowed us to extend sales and services to the Eastern Gulf Coast Region. On July 4, 2005, we acquired selected assets and assumed certain operating liabilities and contracts of Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited, as described above. S&I’s primary manufacturing facility is located in the United Kingdom. This acquisition is part of the Company’s overall strategy to increase our international presence. S&I affords Powell the opportunity to serve customers with products and solutions covering a wider range of electrical standards and opens new geographic markets previously closed due to our previous lack of product portfolio that met international electrical design and test standards. The fit, culture and market position of Powell and S&I compare favorably as both have similar reputations in engineered-to-order solutions. Customers and Markets This business segment’s principal products are designed for use by and marketed to technologically sophisticated users of large amounts of electrical energy that typically have a need for complex combinations of electrical components and systems. Our customers include oil and gas producers, oil and gas pipelines, refineries, petrochemical plants, electrical power generators, public and private utilities, co-generation facilities, mining/metals, pulp and paper plants, transportation systems, governmental agencies and other large industrial customers. Products and services are principally sold directly to the end-user or to an engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) firm on behalf of the end-user. Each project is specifically tailored to meet the exact specifications and requirements of the individual customer. Powell’s expertise is in the engineering and packaging of the various systems into a single deliverable. We market and sell our products and services to a wide variety of customers, markets and geographic regions. As a result of the supply agreement that we entered into on August 7, 2006, with GE, our revenues from GE were approximately $86 million, $82 million and $100 million in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, or approximately 14%, 13% and 18% of our consolidated revenues for these periods. Aside from GE, with whom we have a long-term supply agreement, we do not believe that the loss of any specific customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be adversely impacted by a significant reduction in business volume from a particular industry which we currently serve. GE has become a significant customer and has accounted for, and could continue to account for, more than 10% of the annual revenues of this business segment as a result of the supply agreement that we entered into on August 7, 2006. During each of the past three fiscal years, no one country outside of the United States accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three fiscal years, see Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Table of Contents Competition We strive to be the supplier of choice for custom engineered system solutions to a variety of customers and markets. Our activities are predominantly in the oil and gas and the electric utility industries, but also include other markets where customers need to manage, monitor and control large amounts of electrical energy. The majority of our business is in support of capital investment projects which are competitively bid. We compete with a small number of multinational competitors that sell to a broad industrial and geographic market and with smaller, regional competitors that typically have limited capabilities and scope of supply. Our principal competitors include ABB, Eaton Corporation, GE, Schneider Electric and Siemens. The competitive factors used during bid evaluation by our customers vary from project to project and may include technical support and application expertise, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, equipment rating, delivered value, scheduling and price. A significant portion of our business is from repeat customers and many times involves third-party engineering and construction companies hired by the end-user and with which we also have long and established relationships. We consider our engineering, manufacturing and service capabilities vital to the success of our business, and believe our technical and project management strengths, together with our responsiveness and flexibility to the needs of our customers, give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Ultimately, our competitive position is dependent upon our ability to provide quality custom engineered-to-order products and systems on a timely basis at a competitive price. Backlog Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodology used by other companies. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Orders in the Electrical Power Products business segment backlog at September 30, 2009, totaled $329.6 million compared to $493.0 million at September 30, 2008. Our backlog has declined as an increasing number of our customers have delayed the start of new capital projects during the second half of fiscal year 2009. We anticipate that approximately $282.6 million of our ending 2009 backlog will be fulfilled during our fiscal year 2010. Conditions outside of our control have caused us to experience some customer delays and cancellations of certain projects in the past, accordingly, backlog may not be indicative of future operating results as orders in our backlog may be cancelled or modified by our customers. Raw Materials and Suppliers The principal raw materials used in Electrical Power Products’ operations include steel, copper, aluminum and various electrical components. These raw material costs represented approximately 49% of our revenues in fiscal 2009. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements, disruptions in supplies or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. We purchase certain key electrical components on a sole-sourced basis and maintain a qualification and performance monitoring program to control risk associated with sole-sourced items. Changes in our design to accommodate similar components from other suppliers could be implemented to resolve a supply problem related to a sole-sourced component. In this circumstance, supply problems could result in short-term delays in our ability to meet commitments to our customers. We believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally sufficient, and we have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during fiscal year 2010. While we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, we are highly dependent on our suppliers in order to meet commitments to our customers. We did not experience significant or unusual problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in the past three years. Inflation This business segment is subject to the effects of changing prices. During the last three fiscal years, we experienced increased costs for certain commodities, in particular steel, copper and aluminum products, which are 6 Table of Contents used in the production of our products. While the cost outlook for commodities used in the production of our products is not certain, we believe we can manage these inflationary pressures through contract pricing adjustments and by actively pursuing internal cost reduction efforts. We did not enter into any derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes in fiscal years 2009, 2008 or 2007. Employees At September 30, 2009, the Electrical Power Products business segment had 2,538 full-time employees located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Research and Development This business segment’s research and development activities are directed toward the development of new products and processes as well as improvements in existing products and processes. Research and development expenditures were $5.8 million, $6.3 million and $5.4 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various patents, trademarks and licenses relating to this business segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. Process Control Systems Our Process Control Systems business segment designs and delivers custom engineered-to-order technology solutions that help our customers manage their critical transportation, environmental and energy management processes and facilities. Our proprietary DYNAC® software suite provides a highly integrated operations management solution for these vital operations. The mission-critical information may be traffic flow in our intelligent transportation management solutions, water quality in our environmental treatment solutions or electrical power status in the case of our substation automation solutions. DYNAC® has user configurable applications designed specifically for clients that require high performance, 24/7 availability and superior data integrity in a secure environment. We provide a comprehensive set of technical services to deliver these systems. A diverse team of professional systems engineers, software engineers, analysts, network specialists and automation engineers provide expertise for the entire lifecycle of a technology project. We have designed and built systems for various facilities and roadways around the world. Customers and Markets This business segment’s products and services are principally sold directly to end-users in the transportation, environmental and energy sectors. From time to time, a significant percentage of revenues may result from one specific contract or customer due to the nature of large projects common to this business segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, revenues with one or more customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our segment revenues. Revenues from these customers totaled $7.4 million, $5.4 million and $5.9 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Contracts often represent large-scale, single-need projects with an individual customer. By their nature, these projects are typically nonrecurring for a given customer. Thus, multiple and/or continuous projects of similar magnitude with the same customer are rare. As such, gaps in large project awards may cause material fluctuations in segment revenues. During each of the past three fiscal years, the United States is the only country that accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three fiscal years, see Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 Table of Contents Competition This business segment operates in a competitive market where competition for each contract varies. Depending upon the type of system and customer requirements, the competition may include large multinational firms as well as smaller regional competitors. Our customized systems are designed to meet the specifications of our customers. Each system is designed, delivered and installed to the specific requirements of the particular application. We consider our engineering, systems integration and technical support capabilities vital to the success of our business. We believe our turnkey systems integration capabilities, customizable software, domain expertise, specialty contracting experience and financial strength give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Backlog Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodology used by other companies. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Orders in the Process Control Systems business segment backlog at September 30, 2009, totaled $36.2 million compared to $25.5 million at September 30, 2008. We anticipate that approximately $24.7 million of our year-end 2009 backlog will be fulfilled during our 2010 fiscal year. Conditions outside of our control have caused us to experience some customer delays and cancellations of certain projects in the past, accordingly, backlog may not be indicative of future operating results as orders in our backlog may be cancelled or modified by our customers. Employees The Process Control Systems business segment had 120 full-time employees at September 30, 2009, primarily located in the United States. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Research and Development The majority of research and development activities of this business segment are directed toward the development of our software suites for the management and control of the critical processes and facilities of our customers. Non-project research and development expenditures were $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various copyrights related to software for this business segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the most significant risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the discussion under “Forward-Looking Statements,” above. The current economic uncertainty and financial market conditions have negatively impacted and may continue to impact our customer base, suppliers and backlog. The current economic downturn has reduced our backlog of orders. Various factors drive demand for our products and services, including the price of oil, economic forecasts and financial markets. Continued uncertainty in 8 Table of Contents the price of oil, economic recovery or further deterioration of the financial markets could continue to impact our customers and severely impact the demand for projects that would result in orders for our products and services. If one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors experiences difficulties that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, or they fail to meet our manufacturing requirements, our business could be adversely impacted until we are able to secure alternative sources. Furthermore, our ability to expand our business would be limited in the future if we are unable to increase our bonding capacity or our credit facility on favorable terms or at all. These disruptions could lead to a lower demand for our products and services and could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and potentially impact the trading price of our common stock. Our industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide products or services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. International and political events may adversely affect our operations. International sales accounted for approximately 23% of our revenues in fiscal 2009, including sales from our operations in the United Kingdom. We primarily operate in developed countries with historically stable operating and fiscal environments. Our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of political and economic instability; social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; inflation; currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds and trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials used to manufacture our products may reduce our profits. Our raw material costs represented approximately 48% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials to manufacture our products, including steel, aluminum, copper and various electrical components. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. The process of estimating costs on projects combines professional engineering, cost estimating, pricing and accounting judgment. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of estimated contract profitability. Previously recorded estimates are adjusted as the project progresses. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. 9 Table of Contents Our dependence upon fixed-price contracts could result in reduced profits or, in some cases, losses, if costs increase above our estimates. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed-price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated, and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Revenues and profits recognized under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting may be reversed if estimates of costs to complete a project increase. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Some of our contracts contain penalty provisions that require us to pay liquidated damages if we are responsible for the failure to meet specified contractual milestones and the applicable customer asserts a claim under these provisions. These contractual provisions define the conditions under which our customers may make claims against us to pay liquidated damages. In many cases in which we have had potential exposure for liquidated damages, such damages ultimately were not fully asserted by our customers. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. Our strategy has been to pursue growth and product diversification through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings. We routinely review potential acquisitions. However, we may be unable to implement this strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company; a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business; additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting; risks and liabilities from our acquisitions, some of which may not be discovered during our due diligence; a disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention and a failure to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. Financing for acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which, if available, may not be available on attractive terms. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog. We have a backlog of work to be completed on contracts. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business taken, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which either (1) have not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet completed. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects are canceled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new business taken. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to our being unable to recover certain direct costs, canceled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting underutilization of our assets. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by changes in estimated costs or revenues under fixed-price contracts; the timing and volume of work under new agreements; general economic conditions; the spending patterns of customers; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and 10 Table of Contents business; increases in design and manufacturing costs; the ability of customers to pay their invoices owed to us and disagreements with customers related to project performance on delivery. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for an entire year. We may be unsuccessful at generating profitable internal growth. Our ability to generate profitable internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, potential regulatory changes, our ability to attract new customers; increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers; hire and retain employees and increase volume utilizing our existing facilities. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues, and may adversely impact our profitability. Actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition. We could be named as a defendant in future legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services or manufacturing equipment. We are and will likely continue to be a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers, in which we seek to recover payment of contractual amounts due to us, as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us. When appropriate, we establish provisions against certain legal exposures, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to ongoing developments related to each exposure. If in the future our assumptions and estimates related to such exposures prove to be inadequate or wrong, our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. We carry insurance against many potential liabilities, and our management of risk may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to our related exposures, including certain self-insured medical and dental programs, these policies contain deductibles and limits of coverage. We estimate our liabilities for known claims and unpaid claims and expenses based on information available as well as projections for claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to estimate due to various factors. If any of our insurance policies or programs are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance policies or that exceed our accruals or that exceed our coverage limits and could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 11 Table of Contents Technological innovations by competitors may make existing products and production methods obsolete. All of the products manufactured and sold by the Company depend upon the best available technology for success in the marketplace. The competitive environment is highly sensitive to technological innovation in both segments of our business. It is possible for competitors (both domestic and foreign) to develop products or production methods, which will make current products or methods obsolete or at least hasten their obsolescence. Catastrophic events could disrupt our business. The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters such as hurricanes to epidemics such as health epidemics to acts of war and terrorism could disrupt or delay the Company’s ability to complete projects for its customers and could potentially expose the Company to third-party liability claims. Such events may or may not be fully covered by our various insurance policies or may be subject to deductibles. In addition, such events could impact the Company’s customers and suppliers, resulting in temporary or long-term delays and/or cancellations of orders or raw materials used in normal business operations. These situations are outside the Company’s control and could have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 