RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) includes forward-looking statements based on our current expectations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of operations and financial condition. Statements that contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will” or similar expressions may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and many factors could affect the future financial results and condition of the Company. Factors that may have a material effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results include adverse business or market conditions, our ability to secure and satisfy customers, our customers’ financial conditions and their ability to secure financing to support current and future projects, the availability and cost of materials from suppliers, adverse competitive developments and changes in customer requirements as well as those circumstances discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” below. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are based on current assumptions that we will continue to develop, market, manufacture and ship products and provide services on a competitive and timely basis; that competitive conditions in our markets will not change in a materially adverse way; that we will accurately identify and meet customer needs for products and services; that we will be able to retain and hire key employees; that our products and capabilities will remain competitive; that the financial markets and banking systems will stabilize and availability of credit will continue; that risks related to shifts in customer demand are minimized and that there will be no material adverse change in the operations or business of the Company. Assumptions relating to these factors involve judgments that are based on available information, which may not be complete, and are subject to changes in many factors beyond the Company’s control that can materially affect results. Because of these and other factors that affect our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview Powell Industries, Inc. (we, us, our, Powell or the Company) was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 2004 as a successor to a Nevada company incorporated in 1968. The Nevada corporation was the successor to a company founded by William E. Powell in 1947, which merged into the Company in 1977. Our major subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned, include: Powell Electrical Systems, Inc.; Transdyn, Inc.; Powell Industries International, Inc.; Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited (S&I) and Powell Canada Inc. We develop, design, manufacture and service custom engineered-to-order equipment and systems for the management and control of electrical energy and other critical processes. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we serve the transportation, environmental, energy, industrial and utility industries. Our website address is www.powellind.com. We make available, free of charge on or through our website, copies of our Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Paper or electronic copies of such material may also be requested by contacting the Company at our corporate offices. Our business operations are consolidated into two business segments: Electrical Power Products and Process Control Systems. Approximately 67%, 71% and 77% of our consolidated revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were generated in the United States of America (U.S.). Approximately 80% of our long-lived assets were located in the U.S. at September 30, 2011, with the remaining long-lived assets located primarily in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Canada. Financial information related to our business and geographical segments is included in Note N of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2009, we acquired the business and certain assets of PowerComm Inc. and its subsidiaries, Redhill Systems Ltd., Nextron Corporation, PCG Technical Services Inc. and Concorde Metal Manufacturing Ltd (the entire business of which is referred to herein as Powell Canada) for $23.4 million, excluding debt assumed of $15.1 million and acquisition-related expenses. Powell Canada is headquartered in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and provides electrical, maintenance and services. Powell Canada is also a manufacturer of switchgear and related products, primarily serving the oil and gas industry in western Canada. The operating results of Powell Canada are included in our Electrical Power Products business segment from the acquisition date. For further information on the Powell Canada acquisition, see Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Electrical Power Products Our Electrical Power Products business segment designs, develops, manufactures and markets custom engineered-to-order electrical power distribution and control systems designed (1) to distribute, monitor and control the flow of electrical energy and (2) to provide protection to motors, transformers and other electrically-powered equipment. Our principal products include power control room substation packages, traditional and arc-resistant distribution switchgear, medium-voltage circuit breakers, offshore generator and control modules, monitoring and control communications systems, motor control centers and bus duct systems. These products are designed for application voltages ranging from 480 volts to in excess of 38,000 volts and are used in electric rail transportation, refining, chemical manufacturing, offshore oil and gas production, electric utility systems and other heavy industrial markets. Our product scope includes designs tested to meet both U.S. standards (ANSI) and international design standards (IEC — International Electrotechnical Commission). We also seek to assist customers by providing value-added services such as spare parts, field service inspection and repair, retrofit and retrofill components for existing systems and replacement circuit breakers for switchgear that is obsolete or that is no longer produced by the original manufacturer. We work to establish long-term relationships with the end users of our systems and with the design and construction engineering firms contracted by those end users. 4 Table of Contents Customers and Markets This business segment’s principal products are designed for use by and marketed to technologically sophisticated users of large amounts of electrical energy that typically have a need for complex combinations of electrical components and systems. Our customers and their industries include oil and gas producers, oil and gas pipelines, refineries, petrochemical plants, electrical power generators, public and private utilities, co-generation facilities, mining/metals operations, pulp and paper plants, transportation authorities, governmental agencies and other large industrial customers. Products and services are principally sold directly to the end-user or to an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) firm on behalf of the end-user. Each project is specifically tailored to meet the exact specifications and requirements of the individual customer. Powell’s expertise is in the engineering and packaging of the various systems into a single deliverable. We market and sell our products and services to a wide variety of customers, markets and geographic regions, which are typically awarded in competitive bid situations. Contracts may represent large-scale projects with an individual customer. By their nature, these projects are typically nonrecurring. Thus, multiple and/or continuous projects of similar magnitude with the same customer may vary. As such, gaps in large project awards may cause material fluctuations in segment revenues. We could be adversely impacted by a significant reduction in business volume from a particular industry which we currently serve. As a result of the fifteen-year supply agreement that we entered into on August 7, 2006, with General Electric Company (GE), our revenues from GE were $54 million, $58 million and $86 million in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively, or 10%, 11% and 14% of our consolidated revenues for these periods. Aside from GE, with whom we have a long-term supply agreement, we do not believe that the loss of any specific customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. GE has become a significant customer and has accounted for, and could continue to account for, more than 10% of the annual revenues of this business segment as a result of the supply agreement that we entered into on August 7, 2006. During fiscal years 2010 and 2009, no one country outside of the U.S. accounted for more than 10% of revenues with customers. However, during fiscal year 2011, our operations in Canada accounted for 17% of revenues with customers. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three fiscal years, see Note N of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition We strive to be the supplier of choice for custom engineered system solutions and services to a variety of customers and markets. Our activities are predominantly in the oil and gas and the electric utility industries, but also include other markets where customers need to manage, monitor and control large amounts of electrical energy. The majority of our business is in support of capital investment projects which are competitively bid. We compete with a small number of multinational competitors that sell to a broad industrial and geographic market and with smaller, regional competitors that typically have limited capabilities and scope of supply. Our principal competitors include ABB, Eaton Corporation, GE, Schneider Electric and Siemens. The competitive factors used during bid evaluation by our customers vary from project to project and may include technical support and application expertise, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, equipment rating, delivered value, scheduling and price. A significant portion of our business is from repeat customers and many times involves third-party engineering and construction companies hired by the end-user and with which we also have long and established relationships. We consider our engineering, manufacturing and service capabilities vital to the success of our business, and believe our technical and project management strengths, together with our responsiveness and flexibility to the needs of our customers, give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Ultimately, our competitive position is dependent upon our ability to provide quality custom engineered-to-order products, services and systems on a timely basis at a competitive price. Backlog Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodology used by other companies. Orders included in 5 Table of Contents our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Orders in the Electrical Power Products business segment backlog at September 30, 2011, totaled $394.6 million compared to $245.4 million at September 30, 2010. Our backlog has increased due to orders received for large petrochemical and offshore oil and gas construction projects. We anticipate that approximately $370 million of our fiscal 2011 ending backlog will be fulfilled during our fiscal year 2012. Conditions outside of our control have caused us to experience some customer delays and cancellations of certain projects in the past; accordingly, backlog may not be indicative of future operating results as orders in our backlog may be cancelled or modified by our customers. Raw Materials and Suppliers The principal raw materials used in Electrical Power Products’ operations include steel, copper, aluminum and various electrical components. These raw material costs represented 50% of our revenues in fiscal 2011. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements, disruptions in supplies or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. We purchase certain key electrical components on a sole-sourced basis and maintain a qualification and performance monitoring program to control risk associated with sole-sourced items. Changes in our design to accommodate similar components from other suppliers could be implemented to resolve a supply problem related to a sole-sourced component. In this circumstance, supply problems could result in short-term delays in our ability to meet commitments to our customers. We believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally sufficient, and we have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during fiscal year 2012. While we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, we are highly dependent on our suppliers in order to meet commitments to our customers. We did not experience significant or unusual issues in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in the past three years. Inflation This business segment is subject to the effects of changing prices. During the last three fiscal years, we experienced price volatility for certain commodities, in particular steel, copper and aluminum products, which are used in the production of our products. While the cost outlook for commodities used in the production of our products is not certain, we believe we can manage these inflationary pressures through contract pricing adjustments and by actively pursuing internal cost reduction efforts. We did not enter into any derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes in fiscal years 2011, 2010 or 2009. Employees At September 30, 2011, the Electrical Power Products business segment had 2,566 full-time employees located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Singapore. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Research and Development This business segment’s research and development activities are directed toward the development of new products and processes as well as improvements in existing products and processes. Research and development expenditures were $6.4 million, $6.0 million and $5.8 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various patents, trademarks and licenses relating to this business segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. 6 Table of Contents Process Control Systems Our Process Control Systems business segment designs and delivers custom engineered-to-order technology solutions that help our customers manage their critical transportation, environmental and energy management processes and facilities. Our proprietary DYNAC® software suite provides a highly integrated operations management solution for these vital operations. The mission-critical information may be traffic flow in our intelligent transportation management solutions, water quality in our environmental treatment solutions or electrical power status in the case of our substation automation solutions. DYNAC® has user configurable applications designed specifically for clients that require high performance, 24/7 availability and superior data integrity in a secure environment. We provide a comprehensive set of technical services to deliver these systems. A diverse team of professional systems engineers, software engineers, analysts, network specialists and automation engineers provide expertise for the entire life cycle of a technology project. We have designed and built systems for various facilities and roadways around the world. Customers and Markets This business segment’s products and services are principally sold directly to end-users in the transportation, environmental and energy sectors. From time to time, a significant percentage of revenues may result from one specific contract or customer due to the nature of large projects common to this business segment. In fiscal years 2010 and 2009, revenues with one or more customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our segment revenues. Revenues from these customers totaled $3.2 million and $7.4 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. In fiscal year 2011, no customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our segment revenues. Contracts often represent large-scale, single-need projects with an individual customer. By their nature, these projects are typically nonrecurring for a given customer. Thus, multiple and/or continuous projects of similar magnitude with the same customer are rare. As such, gaps in large project awards may cause material fluctuations in segment revenues. During each of the past three fiscal years, the U.S. is the only country that accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three fiscal years, see Note N of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition This business segment operates in a competitive market where competition for each contract varies. Depending upon the type of system and customer requirements, the competition may include large multinational firms as well as smaller regional competitors. Our customized systems are designed to meet the specifications of our customers. Each system is designed, delivered and installed to the specific requirements of the particular application. We consider our engineering, systems integration and technical support capabilities vital to the success of our business. We believe our turnkey systems integration capabilities, customizable software, domain expertise, specialty contracting experience and financial strength give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Backlog Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodology used by other companies. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Orders in the Process Control Systems business segment backlog at September 30, 2011, totaled $48.4 million compared to $36.9 million at September 30, 2010. We anticipate that approximately $22 million of our ending fiscal 2011 backlog will be fulfilled during our 2012 fiscal year. Conditions outside of our control have caused us to experience some customer delays and cancellations of certain projects in the past; accordingly, backlog may not be indicative of future operating results as orders in our backlog may be cancelled or modified by our customers. 7 Table of Contents Employees The Process Control Systems business segment had 156 full-time employees at September 30, 2011, primarily located in the United States. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Research and Development The majority of research and development activities of this business segment are directed toward the development of our software suites for the management and control of the critical processes and facilities of our customers. Non-project research and development expenditures were $1.1 million, $0.4 million and $0.3 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are reported in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various copyrights related to software for this business segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the most significant risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the discussion under “Forward-Looking Statements,” above. The ongoing economic uncertainty and financial market conditions have negatively impacted and may continue to impact our customer base, suppliers and backlog. Various factors drive demand for our products and services, including the price of oil, capital expenditures, economic forecasts and financial markets. Continued uncertainty in the price of oil, capital expenditures, economic recovery or the financial markets could continue to impact our customers and severely impact the demand for projects that would result in orders for our products and services. If one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors experiences difficulties that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, or they fail to meet our manufacturing requirements, our business could be adversely impacted until we are able to secure alternative sources. Furthermore, our ability to expand our business would be limited in the future if we are unable to increase our bonding capacity or our credit facility on favorable terms or at all. These disruptions could lead to a lower demand for our products and services and could materially impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and potentially impact the trading price of our common stock. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and, therefore, may not be a reliable indicator of our future earnings. We have a backlog of work to be completed on contracts. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business taken, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which either (1) have not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet completed. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects are cancelled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new business taken. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to our being unable to recover certain direct costs, cancelled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting underutilization of our assets. 8 Table of Contents Our volume of fixed-price contracts and use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. The process of estimating costs on projects requires a significant amount of judgment and combines professional engineering, cost estimating, pricing and accounting inputs. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates of revenue and cost to complete are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of estimated contract profitability. Previously recorded estimates are adjusted as the project progresses. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Some of our contracts contain penalty provisions that require us to pay liquidated damages if we are responsible for the failure to meet specified contractual milestones and the applicable customer asserts a claim under these provisions. These contractual provisions define the conditions under which our customers may make claims against us to pay liquidated damages. In many cases in which we have had potential exposure for liquidated damages, such damages ultimately were not fully asserted by our customers. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials used to manufacture our products may reduce our profits. Our raw material costs represented 49% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials to manufacture our products, including steel, aluminum, copper and various electrical components. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. We face risks relating to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2011, we identified control deficiencies that constitute material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The following control deficiencies were present at September 30, 2011: 1) Financial close and reporting process, Powell Canada — Controls over the month-end financial close and reporting process, which provide for the completeness, accuracy, valuation and presentation of account balances at Powell Canada were not effective, which resulted in misstatements to cost of sales, inventory, work in progress and accounts payable. 2) Revenue recognition process for long-term construction projects, Powell Canada — Controls over revenue recognition for long-term construction projects to ensure completeness, accuracy, existence and presentation of revenue, cost and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted projects, billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings on uncompleted projects, and other accrued expenses at Powell Canada were not effective which resulted in misstatements related to these accounts. 3) Cost accumulation process, Powell Canada — Controls over the accumulation and reporting of construction job costs, including the application of overhead and recording labor, to provide for the accurate reporting of revenue and cost and estimated earnings in excess of billings on completed projects at Powell Canada were not effective. 4) Revenue and accounts receivable process for service contracts, Powell Canada — Controls over the revenue and accounts receivable process for service contracts to ensure the completeness, accuracy, existence, valuation, rights and presentation of service contract revenues and accounts receivable were not effective or adequate to prevent or detect material misstatements of these accounts in our consolidated financial statements. 9 Table of Contents These control deficiencies could result in a future material misstatement of the annual and interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, we have determined that the above control deficiencies represent material weaknesses. While we have taken certain actions to address the material weaknesses identified, additional measures may be necessary as we work to improve the overall effectiveness of our internal reporting over financial reporting and revenue recognition. Through these steps, we believe that we are addressing the deficiencies that affected our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2011. However, until the newly implemented controls have operated for a sufficient period of time, we will not be able to conclude that the material weaknesses have been remediated. We will continue to monitor and assess our remediation activities to ensure that the material weaknesses discussed above are remediated as soon as practicable. Please see Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report for a more complete description of these control deficiencies and material weaknesses and certain measures we have undertaken to remediate our deficiencies. Our industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide products or services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the continuing effects from the U.S. government regulations on offshore deepwater drilling projects. In response to the Deepwater Horizon incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, the U.S. government has implemented new safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, has imposed additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and has delayed the approval of applications to drill in both deepwater and shallow-water areas. In addition, the U.S. government has announced that it intends to require that operators demonstrate their compliance with new regulations before they resume deepwater drilling. While certain new drilling plans and drilling permits have been approved during 2011, we cannot predict when the pace at which operators in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico will be able to satisfy these requirements and return to previous levels of active drilling. Further, we cannot predict what the continuing effects from the U.S. government regulations on offshore deepwater drilling projects may have on offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, or what actions may be taken by our customers or other industry participants in response to these regulations. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities and decisions by customers and other industry participants could reduce demand for our services, which would have a negative impact on our operations. International and political events may adversely affect our operations. International sales accounted for 33% of our revenues in fiscal 2011, including sales from our operations in the United Kingdom and Canada. We primarily operate in developed countries with historically stable operating and fiscal environments. Our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of political and economic instability; social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; inflation; currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds and trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the U.S. or other countries. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks. Our strategy has been to pursue growth and product diversification through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings. We routinely review potential acquisitions. We may be unable to implement this strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on 10 Table of Contents acceptable terms or for other reasons. Our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; failure to realize cost savings; the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company and a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business. Additionally, financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as valuation, tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting from our acquisitions pose risks to our strategy. Due diligence may not reveal all risks and challenges associated with our acquisitions. It is possible impairment charges resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition may negatively impact our earnings. A disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention could adversely affect profitability. Financing for acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which, if available, may not be available on attractive terms. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by changes in estimated costs or revenues under fixed-price contracts; the timing and volume of work under new agreements; general economic conditions; the spending patterns of customers; variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions; a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; increases in design and manufacturing costs; the ability of customers to pay their invoices owed to us and disagreements with customers related to project performance on delivery. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for an entire year. We may be unsuccessful at generating profitable internal growth. Our ability to generate profitable internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, potential regulatory changes, our ability to attract new customers, increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers, hire and retain employees and increase volume utilizing our existing facilities. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues, and may adversely impact our profitability. Actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition. We could be named as a defendant in future legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services or manufacturing equipment. We are and will likely continue to be a plaintiff in legal proceedings 11 Table of Contents against customers, in which we seek to recover payment of contractual amounts due to us, as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us. When appropriate, we establish provisions against certain legal exposures, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to ongoing developments related to each exposure. If in the future our assumptions and estimates related to such exposures prove to be inadequate or wrong, our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Unforeseen difficulties with the implementation or operation of our enterprise resource planning system could adversely affect our internal controls and our business. The efficient execution of our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system that supports our human resources, accounting, estimating, financial, job management and customer systems. Any significant failure or malfunction of our ERP system may result in disruption of our operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to the operation of this ERP system. We carry insurance against many potential liabilities, and our management of risk may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to our related exposures, including certain self-insured medical and dental programs, these policies contain deductibles, self-insured retentions and limits of coverage. We estimate our liabilities for known claims and unpaid claims and expenses based on information available as well as projections for claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities, some of which are self-insured, are difficult to estimate due to various factors. If any of our insurance policies or programs are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance policies or that exceed our accruals or that exceed our coverage limits and could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We may incur additional healthcare costs arising from federal healthcare reform legislation. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the U.S. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage to those already insured. The changes required by this legislation could cause us to incur additional healthcare and other costs, but we do not expect any material short-term impact on our financial results as a result of the legislation and are currently assessing the extent of any long-term impact. Technological innovations by competitors may make existing products and production methods obsolete. All of the products manufactured and sold by the Company depend upon the best available technology for success in the marketplace. The competitive environment is highly sensitive to technological innovation in both segments of our business. It is possible for competitors (both domestic and foreign) to develop products or production methods, which will make current products or methods obsolete or at least hasten their obsolescence. Catastrophic events could disrupt our business. The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters such as hurricanes to epidemics such as health epidemics to acts of war and terrorism could disrupt or delay the Company’s ability to complete projects for its customers and could potentially expose the Company to third-party liability claims. Such events may or may not be fully covered by our various insurance policies or may be subject to deductibles. In addition, such events could impact the Company’s customers and suppliers, resulting in temporary or long-term delays and/or cancellations of orders or raw materials used in normal business operations. These situations are outside the Company’s control and could have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 