RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements based on the Company’s current expectations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning future results of operations and financial condition. Statements that contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will,” or similar expressions may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and many factors could affect the future financial results and condition of the Company. Factors that may have a material effect on our revenues, expenses and operating results include adverse business or market conditions, the Company’s ability to secure and satisfy customers, the availability and cost of materials from suppliers, adverse competitive developments and changes in customer requirements as well as those circumstances discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” below. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on our behalf are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are based on current assumptions that the Company will continue to develop, market, manufacture, and ship products and provide services on a competitive and timely basis, that competitive conditions in the Company’s markets will not change in a materially adverse way, that the Company will accurately identify and meet customer needs for products and services, that the Company will be able to retain and hire key employees, that the Company’s capabilities will remain competitive, that risks related to shifts in customer demand are minimized and that there will be no material adverse change in the operations or business of the Company. Assumptions relating to these factors involve judgments that are based on available information, which may not be complete, and are subject to changes in many factors beyond the control of the Company that can materially affect results. Because of these and other factors that affect our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We develop, design, manufacture, and service equipment and systems for the management and control of electrical energy and other critical processes. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, we serve the transportation, environmental, energy, industrial, and utility industries. Powell Industries, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our,” “Powell,” or the “Company”) was incorporated in the state of Delaware in 2004 as a successor to a Nevada company incorporated in 1968. The Nevada corporation was the successor to a company founded by William E. Powell in 1947, which merged into the Company in 1977. Our major subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, include: Powell Electrical Systems, Inc., Transdyn, Inc., Powell Industries International, Inc., Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited, and Switchgear & Instrumentation Properties Limited. Our website address is www.powellind.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Paper or electronic copies of such material may also be requested by contacting the Company at our corporate offices. On December 13, 2005, we announced a change in our fiscal year end from October 31 to September 30, effective September 30, 2006. The change was designed to align our financial reporting with calendar quarters and to reduce the impact holidays have on our reporting timeline. As a result, the current period will be reported as an 11 month period ending on September 30, 2006 (“Fiscal 2006”). Our business operations are consolidated into two business segments: Electrical Power Products and Process Control Systems. Approximately 70%, 75% and 86% of our consolidated revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004, respectively, were generated in the United States of America. Approximately 85% of our long-lived assets were located in the United States at September 30, 2006, with the remaining balance located primarily in the United Kingdom. Financial information related to our business and geographical segments is included in Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On August 7, 2006, we purchased certain assets related to the manufacturing of American National Standards Institute (“ANSI”) medium voltage switchgear and circuit breaker business of General Electric Company’s (“GE”) Consumer & Industrial unit located at its West Burlington, Iowa, facility for $32.0 million, not including expenses. The purchase price was paid from existing cash and short-term marketable securities and from borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into a 15 year supply agreement with GE pursuant to which GE will purchase from the Company (subject to limited conditions for exceptions) all of its requirements for ANSI medium voltage switchgear and circuit breakers and other related equipment and components. We have also agreed to purchase certain of our required product components and subassemblies from GE. In addition, GE has agreed to provide services related to transitioning the product line from West Burlington, Iowa, to the Company’s facilities in Houston, Texas. The relocation of the product line includes all related product technology and design information, engineering, manufacturing and related activities and is currently estimated to be completed during the first half of 2008. GE is continuing to manufacture the products and supply them to Powell during the transition period. The new product line will be manufactured in Houston, Texas, and will require between 300 and 350 employees. In connection with this acquisition, we entered into a lease agreement for a facility in Houston, Texas, which increased our manufacturing space by approximately 140,000 square feet. We refer to the acquired product line herein as “Power/Vac®.” The operating results of Power/Vac® are included in our Electrical Power Products business segment from the acquisition date. For further information on Power/Vac®, see Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On July 14, 2006, we acquired certain assets and hired the service and administrative employees of an electrical services company in Louisiana for approximately $1.5 million. The purchase price was paid from existing 3 Table of Contents cash and short-term marketable securities. Approximately $0.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to property, plant and equipment, $0.1 million to a non-compete agreement, $0.6 million to assembled workforce and the remaining $0.2 million to goodwill. The operating results of this acquisition are included in our Electrical Power Products segment from the acquisition date. For further information on this acquisition, see Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. On July 4, 2005, we acquired selected assets and assumed certain operating liabilities and contracts of Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited in the United Kingdom. We refer to the acquired business herein as “S&I.” The operating results of S&I are included in our Electrical Power Products segment from that date. Total consideration paid for S&I was approximately $19.2 million, of which approximately $10.3 million of the purchase price was funded from existing cash and investments and the balance was provided through additional debt financing. For further information on S&I, see Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Electrical Power Products Our Electrical Power Products segment designs, develops, manufactures, and markets engineered-to-order electrical power distribution and control systems designed (1) to distribute, monitor and control the flow of electrical energy and (2) to provide protection to motors, transformers and other electrically powered equipment. Our principal products include power control room packages, switchgear, offshore modules, motor control centers, and bus duct systems. These products are designed for application voltages ranging from 480 volts to in excess of 38,000 volts and are used in the transportation, industrial and utility markets. On August 7, 2006, we purchased the Power/Vac® product line described above and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview. We believe that this acquisition strengthens our strategic position in the electrical power products business and allows us to reach a broader base of customer. On July 14, 2006, we acquired certain assets and hired the service and administrative employees of an electrical services company in Louisiana. This acquisition allows us to extend sales and service to the Eastern Gulf Coast Region. On July 4, 2005, we acquired selected assets and assumed certain operating liabilities and contracts of Switchgear & Instrumentation Limited in the United Kingdom, as described above and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview. S&I’s primary manufacturing facility is in the United Kingdom. This acquisition is part of the Company’s overall strategy to increase its international presence. S&I affords Powell the opportunity to serve customers with products covering a wider range of electrical standards and opens new geographic markets previously closed due to our lack of product portfolio that met international electrical design and test standards. The fit, culture and market position of Powell and S&I are favorably comparable to companies with similar reputations in engineered-to-order solutions. Customers and Markets This segment’s principal products are designed for use by and marketed to technologically sophisticated users of large amounts of electrical energy that typically have a need for complex combinations of electrical components and systems. Our customers include oil and gas producers, oil and gas pipelines, refineries, petrochemical plants, electrical power generators, public and private utilities, co-generation facilities, mining/metals, pulp and paper plants, transportation systems, governmental agencies, and other large industrial customers. Products and services are principally sold directly to the end-user or to an engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) firm on behalf of the end-user. Each project is specifically tailored to meet the exact specifications and requirements of the individual customer. Powell’s expertise is in the engineering and packaging of the various systems into a single, functional and working deliverable. We market and sell our products and services to a wide variety of customers, markets and geographic regions. During each of the past three fiscal years, we did not have any one customer that accounted for more than 10% of annual segment revenues. Accordingly, we do not believe that the loss of any specific customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we are not dependent upon any one customer for revenues, we could be adversely impacted by a significant reduction in 4 Table of Contents business volume from a particular industry which we currently serve. As a result of the supply agreement we entered into on August 7, 2006 with GE, in the future we expect GE will become a significant customer and will account for more than 10% of annual segment and total revenues. During each of the past three fiscal years, no one country, except for the United States, accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three years, see Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition Our Electrical Power Products segment operates in a competitive market where competition for each project varies. The competition may include large multinational firms as well as small regional low-cost providers, depending upon the type of project. This segment’s products and systems are engineered-to-order and packaged to meet the exact specifications of our customers. Many repeat customers seek our involvement in finding solutions to specific project-related issues including physical size, rating, application, installation, and commissioning. We consider our engineering, manufacturing, and service capabilities vital to the success of our business, and believe our technical and project management strengths, together with our responsiveness and flexibility to the needs of our customers, give us a competitive advantage in our markets. Ultimately, our competitive position is dependent upon our ability to provide quality products and systems on a timely basis at a competitive price. Backlog Orders in the Electrical Power Products segment backlog at September 30, 2006 totaled $324.7 million compared to $212.9 million at the end of the previous fiscal year. We anticipate that approximately $290.0 million of our ending 2006 backlog will be fulfilled during our fiscal year 2007. A portion of the increase in backlog relates to the Power/Vac® acquisition. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. However, conditions outside of our control have caused us to experience some customer delays and cancellations of certain projects in the past. Raw Materials and Suppliers The principal raw materials used in Electrical Power Products’ operations include steel, copper, aluminum, and various electrical components. These raw material costs represented approximately 53.7% of our revenues in fiscal 2006. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. We purchase certain key electrical components on a sole-sourced basis and maintain a qualification and performance monitoring program to control risk associated with sole-sourced items. Changes in our design to accommodate similar components from other suppliers could be implemented to resolve a supply problem related to a sole-sourced component. In this circumstance, supply problems could result in short-term delays in our ability to meet commitments to our customers. We believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally sufficient and have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during fiscal year 2007. While we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, we are highly dependent on our suppliers in order to meet commitments to our customers. We did not experience significant or unusual problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in the past three years. Inflation This segment is subject to the effects of changing prices. During fiscal 2005 and 2006, we experienced increased costs for certain commodities, in particular steel, copper and aluminum products, which are used in the production of our products. While the cost outlook for commodities used in production of our products is not certain, we believe we can manage these inflationary pressures through contract pricing adjustments and by actively pursuing internal cost reduction efforts. We did not enter into any derivative contracts to hedge our exposure to commodity price changes in fiscal years 2006, 2005 or 2004. 5 Table of Contents Employees At September 30, 2006, the Electrical Power Products segment had 1,690 full-time employees located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. Our employees are not represented by unions, and we believe that our relationship with employees is good. Research and Development This segment’s research and development activities are directed toward the development of new products and processes as well as improvements in existing products and processes. Research and development expenditures were $3.7 million, $2.1 million and $2.7 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various patents, trademarks, and licenses relating to this segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. Process Control Systems Our Process Control Systems segment designs and delivers technology solutions that help our customers manage their critical transportation, environmental, energy, industrial, and utility facilities. We offer a diverse set of professional services that specialize in the design, integration, and support of high-availability control, security/surveillance, and communications systems. These systems allow our customers to safely and effectively manage their vital processes and facilities. Customers and Markets This segment’s products and services are principally sold directly to end-users in the transportation, environmental, energy, and industrial sectors. We may be dependent , from time to time, on one specific contract or customer for a significant percentage of our revenues due to the nature of large, long-term construction projects common to this segment. For example, during 2004, we received a contract to design and build Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which accounted for 44% of segment revenues in both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 and 21% in fiscal 2006. In each of the past three fiscal years, we had revenues with one or more customers that individually accounted for more than 10% of our segment revenues. Revenues from these customers totaled $7.9 million, $17.1 million and $14.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our contracts often represent large-scale, single-need projects with an individual customer. By their nature, these projects are typically nonrecurring for those customers, and multiple and/or continuous requirements of similar magnitude with the same customer are rare. Thus, the inability to successfully replace a completed large contract with one or more contracts of combined similar magnitude could have a material adverse effect on segment revenues. During each of the past three fiscal years, no one country, except for the United States, accounted for more than 10% of segment revenues. For information on the geographic areas in which our consolidated revenues were recorded in each of the past three years, see Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition This segment operates in a competitive market where competition for each contract varies. The competition may include large multinational firms as well as small regional low-cost providers, depending upon the type of system and customer requirements. Our customized systems are designed to meet the specifications of our customers. Each order is designed, delivered, and installed to the unique requirements of the particular application. We consider our engineering, systems integration, installation, and support capabilities vital to the success of our business. We believe our technical software products and project management strengths, together with our responsiveness, our flexibility, financial strength, and our over thirty-year history of supporting mission-critical systems give us a competitive advantage in our markets. 6 Table of Contents Backlog Orders in the Process Control Systems segment backlog at September 30, 2006 totaled $30.4 million compared to $46.1 million at the end of the previous fiscal year. We anticipate that approximately $15.5 million of our year-end 2006 backlog will be fulfilled during our 2007 fiscal year. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. We have not experienced a material amount of canceled orders during the past three fiscal years. Employees The Process Control Systems segment had 110 full-time employees at September 30, 2006, all located in the United States. Our employees are not represented by unions and we believe that our relationship with employees is good. Research and Development The majority of research and development activities of this segment are directed toward the development of our software suites for the management and control of the critical processes and facilities of our customers. Research and development expenditures were $0.6 million, $0.7 million and $0.8 million in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intellectual Property While we are the holder of various copyrights related to software for this segment, we do not consider any individual intellectual property to be material to our consolidated business operations. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below. While we believe that the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant risks and uncertainties facing our business, they are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the discussion under Forward-Looking Statements, above. Our industry is highly competitive Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we are able to provide. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry, maintain our customer base at current levels or increase our customer base. An economic downturn may lead to lower demand for our services If the general level of economic activity deteriorates from current levels, our customers may delay or cancel new projects. A number of factors, including financing conditions for and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for services. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the industries we serve may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. 7 Table of Contents International and political events may adversely affect our operations International sales accounted for approximately 30% of our revenues in fiscal 2006, including sales from our operations in the United Kingdom. We primarily operate in developed countries with stable operating and fiscal environments. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition: • political and economic instability; • social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; • inflation; • currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds; and • trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries. Fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials used to manufacture our products may reduce our profits Our raw material costs represented approximately 53% of our revenues for the 11 months ended September 30, 2006. We purchase a wide variety of raw materials to manufacture our products including steel, aluminum, copper, and various electrical components. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or price increases could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability. Our dependence upon fixed-price contracts could result in reduced profits, or in some cases, losses, if costs increase above our estimates We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed-price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed-price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed-price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks Our strategy has been to pursue growth and product diversification through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to expand our product and service offerings. We routinely review potential acquisitions. However, we may be unable to implement this strategy if we cannot reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, our acquisition strategy involves certain risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company; • a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting; • risks and liabilities from our acquisitions, some of which may not be discovered during our due diligence; • a disruption of our ongoing business or an inability of our ongoing business to receive sufficient management attention; and • a failure to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. 8 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a significant portion of our revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs, primarily labor. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Previously recorded estimates are adjusted as the project is completed. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog We have a backlog of work to be completed on contracts. Orders included in our backlog are represented by customer purchase orders and contracts, which we believe to be firm. Backlog develops as a result of new business taken, which represents the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (1) not yet been started or (2) are in progress and are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. From time to time, projects are canceled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new business taken. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, canceled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting under utilization of our assets. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter Our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by: • changes in estimated costs or revenues under fixed price contracts; • the timing and volume of work under new agreements; • general economic conditions; • the spending patterns of customers; • variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; • losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; • a change in the demand or production of our products and our services caused by severe weather conditions; • a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; • increases in design and manufacturing costs; • the ability of customers to pay their invoices owed to us; and • disagreements with customers related to project performance on delivery. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for an entire year. 9 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: • attract new customers; • increase the number or size of projects performed for existing customers; • hire and retain employees; and • increase volume utilizing our existing facilities. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and senior management. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. Our business requires skilled labor, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues. Unforeseen difficulties with the implementation or operation of our enterprise resource planning system could adversely affect our internal controls and our business We contracted with an independent consultant to assist us with the configuration and implementation of an enterprise resource planning system that supports our human resources, accounting, estimating, financial, job management, and customer systems. We are currently implementing this system. The efficient execution of our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal systems. Any significant failure or malfunction of our enterprise resource planning system may result in disruption of our operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to the operation of this system. Failure to successfully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on a timely basis could seriously harm our business Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and also requires our independent registered public accountants to attest to this report. Although we have historically been able to successfully comply with Section 404, in the future, we may not be successful in complying with Section 404 on a timely basis. The failure to comply with Section 404 could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition We are likely to continue to be named as a defendant in legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services or manufacturing equipment. We are and will likely continue to be a plaintiff in legal proceedings 10 Table of Contents against customers, in which we seek to recover payment of contractual amounts due to us as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us. When appropriate, we establish provisions against certain legal exposures, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to ongoing developments related to each exposure. If in the future our assumptions and estimates related to such exposures prove to be inadequate or wrong, our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, could be adversely affected. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Technological innovations by competitors may make existing products and production methods obsolete All of the products manufactured and sold by the Company depend upon the best available technology for success in the market place. The competitive environment is highly sensitive to technological innovation in both segments of our business. It is possible for competitors (both domestic and foreign) to develop products or production methods, which will make current products obsolete or at least hasten their obsolescence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 