ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results General Risk Factors We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our operations. Our prospects are subject to many uncertainties and risks. Management recognizes the challenges that it faces, particularly during this period of diminished sales levels, and has adopted a number of strategies and action steps to deal with its current operating environment. Disclosure of our strategies and action steps is contained in the discussions set forth in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", and elsewhere herein. These risks and uncertainties are also detailed from time to time in reports we file with the SEC, including Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K, and include, among other factors, the following principal risks: 11 We have incurred net losses over the last several years and we are uncertain as to our future profitability. We recorded net losses of $3,314,000, $1,424,000 and $709,000 during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We expect that, due to the buildout of our new carrier-based, hosted IP telephony business as further described below, we will continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future, and such losses may be substantial. We will need to generate significant revenue growth to achieve an operating profit. We are pursuing a significant new business direction - the marketing of carrier-based, hosted VoIP products and related network services - which may not be profitable. Since the beginning of 2005, we have been devoting significant management and capital resources to the development of this business, and we expect to continue to do so; however we cannot provide assurance that this new business venture will be profitable. Our business model is still being developed, and it has not yet been proven out. There is also no guarantee that we will be successful in generating significant revenues from future sales of our planned IP products and services. If we are not able to generate significant revenues selling into the VoIP telephony market, our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. We currently have limited cash resources, and we may not have adequate cash or credit lines to finance our current working capital requirements or the buildout of our new IP telephony business. We are currently dependent upon cash generated from operations, and borrowings under a revolving credit facility, to satisfy our working capital requirements, which have increased since we are incurring costs associated with the development of One IP Voice ("OIPV") and its associated products and service offerings. A material adverse change in our business going forward could prompt our lender to terminate our credit facility. In addition, continued losses will consume our current cash reserves, and negatively affect our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing until we could demonstrate improved operating results or a return to profitability. Our working capital requirements are expected to significantly increase as we continue the build out of the infrastructure of capital equipment, systems, licenses and personnel required to deploy our hosted VoIP service offerings through OIPV. Our current telephone equipment business does not generate sufficient cash to meet the additional cash requirements of OIPV. In the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient external financing for this project, we may be unable to complete the buildout of the OIPV business as currently planned. No assurances can be given that we will have sufficient cash resources to finance future growth, and it has become necessary to raise additional funds through public and/or private debt and equity financings, which may also not be available to us until operating performance improves, and which may significantly dilute stockholder ownership in us. If, however, we perform according to our expectations, we believe that additional sources of financing would become available to us. If we are unable to attract and retain key management and sales employees, we will not be able to compete effectively and our business may not be successful. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to hire and retain key technical, sales and executive management personnel who have critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to execute our business plans. Competition for such personnel is currently intense in our industries. If we fail to hire and retain a sufficient number of high- quality personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. Risks Attributable to the new IP Telephony Business The success of our new OIPV business venture is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of VoIP telephony products and services. As we enter this emerging marketplace, we will be dependent upon future demand for VoIP telephony systems and services. In order for the IP telephony market to continue to grow, several things need to occur. Telephony service providers must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and business customers. VoIP networks must improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss, and unreliable bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be provided. VoIP telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the public switched 12 telephone network have come to expect from their telephone service. VoIP telephony service providers such as ourselves must offer cost and feature benefits that are sufficient to cause customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. Furthermore, end users in markets serviced by recently deregulated telecommunications providers are not familiar with obtaining services from competitors of these providers and may be reluctant to use new providers, such as ourselves. We will need to devote substantial resources to educate customers and end users about the benefits of VoIP telephony solutions in general and our services in particular. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our business may not be successful. The VoIP telephony market is subject to intense competition and rapid technological change, and we will depend on new product and service introductions in order to establish, maintain and grow our business. VoIP telephony is an emerging market that is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, and continuing and rapid technological advancement. To compete successfully in this emerging market, we will have to offer VoIP telephony products and services that will incorporate the latest technological advancements in features, performance and cost-effectiveness, and respond to changing customer requirements. To that end, we will be reliant upon independent third party providers and manufacturers of the equipment, networks and software that are integrated into our product offerings. In particular, we rely heavily on Straitshot Communications, Inc., a Washington corporation, ("Straitshot") for certain communications services and equipment in connection with our OIPV offering. Our Chairman and CEO, Mr. Stiegemeier, is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Straitshot. In the event that Straitshot was unable or unwilling to provide services or equipment under its agreement with OIPV, service to the Company's customers could be materially impacted. The Company competes against many companies in the VoIP industry including providers of hosted offerings such as AT&T, Callvantage, MCI Advantage, Voiceone, Net2Phone, Cbeyond, Covad and Vonage; cable television companies, such as Cablevision, Cox and Time Warner, incumbent telephone carriers, such as SBC and Verizon and other providers of traditional and legacy telephone service. While competition will be intense in this burgeoning industry, we believe that our products will effectively compete because we are delivering a complete product and service offering to the SMB business segment. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate our planned competitive pricing structure. Decreasing telecommunications rates may diminish or eliminate the competitive pricing structure of our services. Telecommunications rates have decreased significantly over the last few years in most of the markets in which we intend to operate, and we anticipate that rates will continue to be reduced. Users who select our services to take advantage of the current pricing differential between traditional telecommunications rates and our rates may switch to traditional telecommunications carriers as such pricing differentials diminish or disappear, and we will be unable to use such pricing differentials to attract new customers in the future. Continued rate decreases could require us to lower our rates to remain competitive and adversely impact our profit margins. Our success will depend on third parties in our planned distribution channels. We plan to sell our products primarily through resellers, and we are focusing our business development efforts on establishing distribution channels. Our planned revenues and future growth will depend in large part on sales of our products through reseller and other distribution relationships. We may not be successful in developing these distribution relationships. Agreements with distribution partners may not require minimum purchases or restrict development or distribution of competitive products. In addition, our planned distribution channels may not dedicate sufficient resources or give sufficient priority to selling our products. Our failure to develop distribution channels, the loss of a key distribution relationship or a decline in the efforts of a material reseller or distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Attributable to our Legacy Telecommunications Equipment Business Our business is materially impacted by capital spending levels for telecommunications products and services in the United States. 13 Although the Company experienced a 23% improvement in revenues in 2005 as compared to 2004, revenues have been impacted by reduced business spending by our larger customers on enterprise communications equipment over the last several years. In addition, this environment has resulted in increased pricing and competitive pressures, which have affected revenues and profit margins. If business capital spending for telecommunications products does not improve, or if economic conditions in the U.S. deteriorate, our telecommunications equipment revenues may decline and our operating results will be adversely affected. We remain cautious about the telecommunications product marketplace going forward, and cannot predict whether the level of capital spending for the Company's products will improve in the near term. As a result, we believe that there will be continued pressure on our ability to generate revenue in excess of current levels. Our Business is heavily dependent upon Avaya, as our primary supplier of equipment for resale. We primarily sell Avaya telecommunications products and services through various Dealer agreements with Avaya. The Company is dependent upon the quality and price-competitiveness of current Avaya products as well as Avaya's continued development of new products in order to compete. The Company's current sales levels for new parts and systems would be adversely impacted should market demand for these Avaya products significantly decline. Should Avaya's operations deteriorate to the point that it either cannot continue to introduce technologically new products or effectively compete with other equipment manufacturers, our long-term business strategy to continue as an Avaya dealer would be adversely affected. Our new parts and systems sales levels would also be adversely impacted if the Avaya dealer agreements were terminated, or if Avaya eliminated its "Business Partner" programs. Our gross profit margins vary from period to period. Our gross profit margins are dependent upon a variety of factors including (1) product mix -gross margins can vary significantly among parts sales, system sales and our various service offerings. The parts business, for example, involves hundreds of parts that generate significantly varying gross profit margins depending upon their availability, competition, and demand conditions in the marketplace; (2) customer mix -we sell parts to both end-users and to other equipment resellers. Our larger "Enterprise" companies often receive significant purchase discounts from Avaya, which could lower our gross margins as we compete against Avaya directly for this business; (3) the level and amount of vendor discounts and purchase rebates available to us from Avaya and its master distributors; (4) excess capacity - -as sales volume falls, overhead costs become a higher percentage of sales dollars; (5) competitive pressures -as a result of the slowdown in capital equipment spending in our industry, and the several hundred Avaya dealers nationwide , we have been faced with increased price competition; and (6) obsolescence charges. The combined effect of all of these factors will result in varying gross profit margins from period to period. Our gross profit margins and operating expenses could be adversely affected by a reduction in purchase discount and other rebate or incentive programs currently offered by Avaya. As an Avaya Dealer, we receive substantial rebates and other cash incentives from Avaya, based upon volume levels of certain product purchases, which are material to our operating results and which help reduce product purchase costs, market development and marketing expenses. These incentive programs are subject to change by Avaya, and no assurances can be given that they would not be altered so as to adversely impact our profit margins or operating expenses. Risks Related to our Current Financing Arrangements and Financing Plans: If we are required to repay our outstanding borrowings under our Secured Revolving Note or Secured Convertible Minimum Borrowing Notes to Laurus at an unexpected time, we could deplete our working capital. An inability to repay the outstanding borrowings when required could require the sale of substantial assets. Our Secured Revolving Note and Secured Convertible Minimum Borrowing Notes (collectively, the "Notes") with Laurus for a maximum of $3 million, of which $1,832,000 was outstanding at December 31, 2005, are repayable March 31, 2008, unless sooner converted into shares of our common stock. An Event of Default, as defined under these agreements and including, for example, a change in the Company's financial condition which is deemed to have a "material adverse effect", which is not cured within specified grace periods, can result in the 14 acceleration of the Note repayments. The Notes are secured by the Company's assets. An inability to repay the Notes when required could result in the sale of substantial of the Company's assets. Future equity transactions, including exercise of options or warrants and shares issued under convertible notes and equity securities, could depress the market price of our common stock and could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. From time to time, the Company may sell preferred stock and warrants, and convertible debt, to investors in private placements conducted by broker-dealers, or in negotiated transactions. These transactions cause dilution to existing shareholders. Also, from time to time, options are issued to employees and third parties, with exercise prices equal to market. Exercise of in-the-money options and warrants will result in dilution to existing shareholders; the amount of dilution may depend on the spread between market and exercise price, and the number of shares involved. The Company will continue to grant options to employees and consultants with exercise prices equal to market price at the grant date, and in the future may sell restricted stock and warrants, all of which may result in dilution to existing shareholders. As of March 24, 2006, we had 3,936,032 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and we had (i) convertible notes and warrants issued to the Laurus Master Fund, Ltd which could require the issuance of 1,460,630 additional shares of common stock; (ii) shares of Series A convertible preferred stock outstanding which are convertible into 1,945,200 shares of common stock; (iii) warrants issued to investors and the placement agent in connection with the Company's 2006 private placement transactions which could require the issuance of 1,480,591 additional shares of common stock; (iv) warrants issued to the placement agent in connection with the Company's 2006 private placement transactions which could require the issuance of Series A convertible preferred stock which would be convertible into 203,320 shares of common stock; and (v) and outstanding stock options and warrants issued to employees and affiliates which could require the issuance of 3,685,369 additional shares of common stock. Terms of subsequent financing may adversely impact your investment. We may have to raise equity by issuing debt or preferred stock financing in the future. Your rights and the value of your investment in our common stock could be reduced. For example, if we continue to issue secured debt, the creditors would have a claim to our assets that would be prior to the rights of stockholders until the debt is paid. Debt service would increase costs and negatively impact operating results. Preferred stock could also be issued in series from time to time with such designations, rights, preferences, and limitations as needed to raise capital. The terms of preferred stock offerings could be more advantageous to those investors than to the holders of common stock. We are currently listed on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. On November of 2005, the Company received notice from the American Stock Exchange (the "AMEX") that the Company no longer complied with the AMEX's continued listing standards as set forth in Section 1003 (a) (ii) of the AMEX Company Guide (the "Company Guide"), and that its securities were, therefore, subject to being delisted from the AMEX. The Company was previously granted an eighteen month period to regain compliance with this standard, and such compliance period ended as of November 7, 2005. The Company subsequently appealed this determination and on December 14, 2005 participated in a formal hearing before an appointed Listing Qualifications Panel (the "Panel"). On December 19, 2005, the Company received written notice from the AMEX that the Panel had affirmed the earlier determination to delist the common stock of the Company. The notice cited that the Company was as of November 7, 2005, and continued to be, not in compliance with (1) Section 1003(a)(i) of the Company Guide as its stockholders' equity was less than $2 million and it had sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years; and (2) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the Company Guide as its stockholders' equity was less than $4 million and it had sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. The Company obtained quotation of its securities on the Over-the- Counter Bulletin Board (the "OTCBB") effective December 30, 2005, and its Common Stock is currently listed under the symbol "FTGP". The OTC Bulletin Board(R) is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information in over-the-counter (OTC) equity securities. An OTC equity security generally is any equity that is not listed or traded on Nasdaq(R)(R) or a national securities exchange. OTCBB securities include national, regional, and 15 foreign equity issues, warrants, units, American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), and Direct Participation Programs (DPPs). The recent delisting described above and being listed on the OTCBB could reduce the ability of our shareholders to purchase or sell shares as quickly and as inexpensively as they have done historically. For instance, failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange may make it more difficult for traders to sell our securities. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our common stock which could * result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock; * lessen interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our common stock; * make it more difficult to obtain analyst coverage; and * make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. If we are unable to obtain, and/or maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement for the shares underlying the Laurus Minimum Borrowing Notes and Warrants, we may incur substantial financial penalties Pursuant to the terms of a Registration Rights Agreement with Laurus in connection with the current credit facility, the Company is obligated to file and obtain effectiveness for a registration statement registering the resale of shares of the Company's Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Laurus Notes and the exercise of the Warrant. If the registration statement is not filed or declared effective in a timely manner, the Company will be subject to certain penalties including a daily penalty at a rate of 2% per month of the outstanding principal amount of any Minimum Borrowing Notes. If we sell any securities at an effective price below $1.54 per share, the conversion price of the Laurus convertible notes will be lowered, resulting in additional dilution to stockholders Pursuant to our convertible note agreements with Laurus, if we issue securities at a price that is lower than the then current conversion price, which was $1.54 as of December 31, 2005, the conversion price applicable to Laurus would be lowered to this amount. If this occurs, stockholders may incur substantial additional dilution as a result of the potential issuance of additional securities upon conversion. In January 2006 Laurus's conversion price was in fact lowered to $1.27 from $1.54 as a result of the issuance of warrants to investors at a $1.27 exercise price. Other Risks: In addition to the specific risks and uncertainties discussed above, our future operating performance can also be affected by: performance and reliability of products; the maintenance of our level of customer service and customer relationships; adverse publicity; business disruptions; acts of terrorism within the U.S., and the impact of those acts on the U.S. economy; and other events that can impact revenues and business costs. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on its business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Stockholders should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material information unless such information shall have been previously or is simultaneously disclosed in a manner intended to provide broad, non-exclusionary distribution of the information to the public. Accordingly, stockholders should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, we have a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. 16 We may be subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law enacted in 1988. In general, Section 203 restricts the ability of a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder. Subject to exceptions, an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years did own, 15% or more of a corporation's voting stock. As a result of the application of Section 203, potential acquirers may be discouraged from attempting to acquire us, thereby possibly depriving our stockholders of acquisition opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of our stock at above-market prices typical of acquisitions. The price of our common stock could be volatile. Prior to December 30, 2005, our stock traded on the AMEX. Since that time, our common stock has traded on the OTCBB. It has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements by us or our competitors, factors affecting the telecommunications industry generally, changes in national or regional economic conditions, changes in securities analysts' estimates for our competitors' or industry's future performance or general market conditions. The market price of our common stock could also be affected by general market price declines or market volatility in the future or future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies in our industry. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and therefore do not anticipate declaring or paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our Company. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively control or beneficially own approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 