Risk Factors — “We are subject to the risks of our and our licensees conducting business outside of the United States.” Additional information regarding our operating segments is provided in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial statements. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 — Segment Information.” 9 Table of Contents QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT) QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications, multimedia functions and global positioning products. QCT’s integrated circuits and system software are used in wireless handsets and infrastructure equipment. These products provide customers with advanced wireless technology, enhanced component integration and interoperability, and reduced time to market. QCT products are sold to many of the world’s leading wireless handset, data card and infrastructure manufacturers. In fiscal 2005, QCT shipped approximately 151 million MSM integrated circuits for CDMA wireless devices worldwide. QCT revenues comprised 58%, 64% and 63% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Three major customers, LG Electronics, Motorola Inc. and Samsung Electronics Company, constitute a significant portion of QCT’s revenues, such that the loss of any one of these customers could potentially reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain acceptable levels of operating results. QCT’s integrated circuit products, including the MSM, RF and PM devices and the related software enable phone manufacturers to design very small, feature-rich handsets with longer standby and talk times that support existing cdmaOne and 3G services, and enable data card manufacturers to design modems that insert into laptop computers to facilitate access to the Internet via wireless networks. For wireless infrastructure manufacturers, QCT offers integrated circuits and system software that provide wireless standards-compliant processing of voice and data signals to and from wireless handsets. In addition to the key components in a wireless system, QCT provides our customers with system reference designs and development tools to assist in customizing features and user interfaces, to integrate our products with components developed by others, and to test interoperability with existing and planned networks. QCT is also closely aligned with manufacturers and operators in product plans, design specifications and development timelines. The 1xEV-DO technology is designed to provide reliable, cost-effective and always-on wireless data and Internet access to consumers. It is fully compatible with existing cdmaOne and CDMA2000 1X technologies and has been standardized as part of the CDMA2000 mode of the 3G standard. The 1xEV-DO technology can be embedded in phones, laptop and handheld computers, and other fixed, portable and mobile devices to enable manufacturers to deliver products with access to services that were previously only available through wired connections to the Internet or to enterprise networks. The 1xEV-DO technology also allows operators to leverage their current infrastructure investment and maintain compatibility with existing phone equipment. We designed and developed a complete package of products, including both infrastructure and phone integrated circuits, in support of the industry-wide movement to standardize, develop and deploy 1xEV-DO technology in CDMA2000 networks. Leveraging our expertise in CDMA, we have developed integrated circuits for manufacturers and operators deploying the WCDMA version of 3G. More than 30 wireless device manufacturers have selected our WCDMA products that support GSM/GPRS, WCDMA and HSDPA, for their devices. To support near-term commercial network roll-outs, we have also completed interoperability testing with global infrastructure providers representing wireless network operators worldwide using test devices based on our integrated circuit products. Our MSM integrated circuit products are offered on four distinct platforms in order to address specific market segments and offer products tailored to the needs of users in those various market segments. The Value Platform addresses entry-level markets and enables voice-centric and basic data wireless phones. The Value Platform includes our Single Chip (SC) product family, the industry’s first single-chip CDMA2000 1X products targeted at lowering overall handset costs and driving the broader adoption of high-speed data services in emerging markets. We expect to ship samples of the SC family of products in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Multimedia and Enhanced Multimedia Platforms are designed to facilitate the rapid adoption of high-speed wireless data applications. Features from the Multimedia and Enhanced Multimedia Platforms include support for multi-megapixel cameras, videotelephony, streaming multimedia, audio, 3D graphics and advanced position-location capabilities. There are more than 120 commercial devices currently available based on our CDMA2000 Multimedia Platform MSM6500 and Enhanced Multimedia Platform MSM6550 integrated circuits. More than 110 WCDMA/HSDPA devices based on Multimedia Platform MSM6250 and Enhanced Multimedia Platform MSM6275 integrated circuits are currently either in design or are commercially available. The MSM6275 was our first high performance HSDPA integrated circuit shipped to customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. In the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we shipped samples of our second generation HSDPA integrated circuit, the MSM6280, which supports data speeds of up to 7.2 megabits per second to enable the deployment of advanced data and multimedia services among wireless subscribers worldwide. The MSM6280 integrated circuit also integrates advanced receiver technologies for increased data throughput and network capacity. 10 Table of Contents The Convergence Platform enables portable business, high-fidelity entertainment, interactive 3D gaming and other advanced multimedia, connectivity and position location applications which are easily integrated to enable the convenience of wireless devices and the next generation of wireless capabilities. In fiscal 2005, we shipped samples of the dual-CPU MSM7500 Convergence Platform single-chip product, which addresses CDMA2000 1X, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO Revision A and GSM/GPRS air interfaces and incorporates popular digital electronics functionalities into wireless devices. Our Cell Site Modem (CSM) integrated circuit products are the primary integrated circuits in a wireless operator’s base station equipment. In fiscal 2005, we shipped samples of the CSM6800, for CDMA2000 1xEV-DO Revision A infrastructure equipment, which provides a seamless migration path to the next evolution of CDMA2000. Revision A enables rich wireless multimedia services such as high-speed transfer of bandwidth-intensive files (including high-quality pictures, video and music) and interactive 3D gaming, as well as multicasting services powered by our FLO technology. The CSM6700 product is compatible with IS-95 and CDMA2000 1X Revision A standards. Our gpsOne position-location technology is in more than 150 million gpsOne-enabled handsets sold worldwide. Enabling a range of more than 200 consumer and enterprise location-based services around the globe, gpsOne supports four modes of operation across a variety of terrains: Hybrid Mobile Station-Assisted GPS (Global Positioning System) enables a location fix whenever a call can be placed; Mobile Station-Assisted GPS provides extreme sensitivity to GPS signals across a broad range of environments; Mobile Station-Based GPS provides repetitive fix capabilities that are ideal for navigation, tracking and games; and Standalone GPS enables positioning in off-network scenarios. Compatible with all major air interfaces, the gpsOne technology is the industry’s only fully-integrated wireless baseband and GPS product, and has enabled CDMA system operators to cost-effectively meet the FCC’s E911 mandate. In order to provide optimized system products, we expanded our portfolio of power management integrated circuits to address all market segments. The PM6620 was announced in fiscal 2005, and is designed to address cost-sensitive markets by being interfaced with MSM products from the Value Platform. The PM6630 and PM6640 were also announced in fiscal 2005, and support the Multimedia Platform of products. All three PM integrated circuits deliver enhanced performance, time-to-market advantages and reduced power demands on wireless handsets when combined with MSM integrated circuits. In fiscal 2005, we announced a relationship with Philips Semiconductor, Inc. to provide support for Philips’ wireless local area network (WLAN) module on select MSM integrated circuits. These MSM integrated circuits will offer connectivity to WLAN networks, as well as to existing wireless networks, and will feature compatibility with 802.11b and 802.11g protocols on both CDMA2000 and WCDMA networks. In fiscal 2005, we also announced the introduction of the MBD1000 integrated circuit, which supports our FLO technology. Operating in the 700 MHz spectrum with an RBR1000 radio receiver, the MBD1000 will interface with integrated circuits from the Multimedia Platform for both CDMA2000 and WCDMA networks. QUALCOMM Technology Licensing Segment (QTL) QTL grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of CDMA products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdmaOne, CDMA2000, WCDMA and/or the CDMA TDD standards and their derivatives. QTL receives revenue from license fees as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Ongoing royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the net selling price of licensed products. Revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. QTL revenues comprised 32%, 27% and 26% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Segment (QWI) QWI revenues comprised 11%, 12% and 13% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The three divisions aggregated into QWI are: QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS). The QIS division provides technology to support and accelerate the growth of the wireless data market. The BREW (Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless) platform is an application execution environment that provides an open platform for wireless devices, which means that BREW can 11 Table of Contents be made to interface with many software applications, including those developed by others. The BREW platform is part of a complete package of products for wireless applications development, device configuration, application distribution, and billing and payment. The BREW platform currently leverages the capabilities available in QCT’s integrated circuits and system software, enabling development of feature-rich applications and content while maximizing memory utilization and system performance. BREW products and services include the BREW SDK for developers, the BREW applications platform (i.e. software programs) and interface tools for device manufacturers, the uiOne customized user interface product, and the deliveryOne Content Distribution System that enables wireless network operators to deliver applications and content to market while providing settlement of the billing and payment process. The BREW platform also includes BREW extensions, such as virtual machines, browsers and other interpreters that process executable content, such as JAVA midlets (applications written using the Java language to run on JAVA 2 Micro Edition Virtual Machines within wireless mobile devices), JavaScript (a scripting language used to author instructions from execution on a device), Flash (a technology developed by Macromedia to author Scalable Vector Graphics), XHTML and HTML (“mark up” program languages used to author web-based content). BREW-based services enable consumers to customize their handsets by downloading applications over-the-air from an operator’s application download server. KTF, a leading wireless phone operator in South Korea, launched the world’s first commercial BREW-enabled applications service in 2001. KTF’s BREW-enabled wireless data service runs on both CDMA2000 1X and EV-DO high-speed data networks. Numerous other operators have since commercially launched BREW services, including Verizon Wireless, Alltel, US Cellular and Midwest Cellular in the United States, KDDI in Japan, Telstra in Australia, Telefonica in Colombia, VIVO in Brazil, Reliance and Tata in India, and China Unicom in China. In January 2002, we announced a multi-year licensing agreement with Nextel for QChat, a technology developed to provide a reliable method of instant connection and two-way communication between users via their mobile phones. Using QChat, users may speak with other users virtually instantaneously at the push of a button. It enables one-to-one (private) and one-to-many (group) calls over 3G CDMA networks. The technology also allows over-the-air upgrades of handset software, management of group membership by subscribers and ad-hoc creation of chat groups. It uses voice-over Internet protocol technologies, thereby sending voice information in digital form over Internet protocol-based data networks (including CDMA) in discrete packets rather than the traditional circuit-switched protocols of the public switched telephone network. QUALCOMM Wireless Business Solutions (QWBS). The QWBS division provides satellite and terrestrial-based two-way data messaging and position reporting services to transportation companies, private fleets, construction equipment fleets and other enterprise companies. The satellite-based OmniTRACS mobile communications system was first introduced in the United States in 1988. Through September 2005, we have shipped over 566,000 satellite-based mobile communications systems (OmniTRACS, EutelTRACS and TruckMAIL) and over 85,000 terrestrial-based mobile communications systems (OmniExpress, T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS and GlobalTRACS), which currently operate in over 39 countries. Message transmission and position tracking for the OmniTRACS and TruckMAIL systems are provided by use of leased Ku-band and C-band transponders on commercially available geostationary earth orbit satellites. The OmniExpress, T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS, GlobalTRACS and OmniOne systems use wireless digital terrestrial networks for messaging transmission, and the GPS constellation for position tracking. These mobile communications systems help transportation companies, private fleets and construction equipment fleets improve the utilization of assets and increase efficiency and safety by improving communications between drivers, machines and dispatchers. System features include status updates, load and pick-up reports, position reports at regular intervals, and vehicle and driving performance information. In the United States and Mexico, we manufacture and sell OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL, OmniExpress, T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS and GlobalTRACS mobile communications equipment, sell related software packages and provide ongoing messaging and maintenance services. We have sold OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL and OmniExpress systems for use by private trucking fleets, service vans, marine vessels, trains, federal emergency vehicles, and for oil and gas pipeline control and monitoring sites. Our GlobalTRACS system is sold to the construction equipment industry, providing wireless access to equipment operating data and location, regardless of equipment type or manufacturer. Message transmissions for operations in the United States are formatted and processed at our Network Management Center in San Diego, California, with a fully-redundant backup Network Management Center located in Las Vegas, Nevada. We estimate the Network Management Center currently processes over nine million messages and position reports per day. 12 Table of Contents In fiscal 2004, we began shipping T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS for private fleets and for-hire carriers. The T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS product is an advanced, stand-alone wireless system that provides rapid-status visibility into trailer locations and operational events and vehicle position reporting for improved fleet utilization and security. Features include sophisticated on-board hardware, advanced power management, complete network services, cargo and door sensors and data integration capabilities using state-of-the-art, multimode communications. We recently announced the availability of two new applications, the QUALCOMM Hours of Service (HOS) and Automated Arrival & Departure (AA&D) applications. The QUALCOMM HOS application is a management tool that helps fleet managers optimize dispatch assignments by providing driver availability information. AA&D gives fleet managers information needed to monitor delivery schedules, recognize inefficiencies, improve on-time performance and prevent detention billing disputes. In addition to the United States, the OmniTRACS system is currently operating throughout Europe and in the Middle East, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, China, Japan and South Korea. Outside of the United States, Mexico and Europe, we work with distributors or through joint ventures to provide the OmniTRACS service and products in foreign markets. We generate revenues from the OmniTRACS system through license fees, sales of network products and terminals, and messaging and service fees. Service providers that operate network management centers for a region under our granted licenses provide OmniTRACS messaging services. QUALCOMM Government Technologies (QGOV). The QGOV division (formerly known as QUALCOMM Digital Media, or QDM) provides development, hardware and analytical expertise to United States government (USG) agencies involving wireless communications technologies. We have developed, produced and shipped second generation CDMA secure wireless terrestrial phones for the USG that operate in enhanced security modes (referred to as Type 1) and incorporate end-to-end encryption. In fiscal 2005, QGOV adapted, integrated and shipped CDMA2000 1X deployable base stations to the USG. Additionally, OmniTRACS products and services are being used for USG worldwide applications and were sold to the USG during fiscal 2005. Based on the percentage of QGOV revenues to our total consolidated revenues, the USG is not a major customer. QUALCOMM Strategic Initiatives Segment (QSI) We make strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of CDMA products and services for wireless voice and Internet data communications, including CDMA operators, licensed device manufacturers and companies that support the design and introduction of new CDMA-based products or possess unique capabilities or technology. We make strategic investments in early stage companies and, from time to time, venture funds to support the adoption of CDMA and the use of the wireless Internet. In November 2001, we acquired controlling interests in two CDMA operators in Brazil (Vésper Operating Companies). We sold these two operators in fiscal 2004. We have a significant investment in Inquam Limited (Inquam). Inquam owns, develops and manages wireless CDMA-based communications systems, either directly or indirectly, primarily in Romania and Portugal. Our MediaFLO USA subsidiary, a wireless multimedia operator, is expected to begin commercial operations in latter 2006. MediaFLO USA will offer a nationwide mediacast network based on our FLO (Forward Link Only) technology and MediaFLO MDS (Media Distribution System) as a shared resource for wireless operators and their customers within the United States. We are developing our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology to optimize the low cost delivery of multimedia content to multiple wireless subscribers simultaneously. The MDS will provide wireless network operators the ability to enhance their multimedia service offering capabilities via efficient scheduling and delivery of multimedia content. Wireless network operators can utilize the MDS with their current unicast networks and with multicast networks, which are soon to be available, operating on CDMA2000 1xEV-DO or WCDMA. The MDS is not air interface specific and thus can be utilized by CDMA2000, WCDMA and FLO technology operators alike. FLO is a multicast air interface technology specifically designed for markets where dedicated spectrum is available and where regulations permit high-power transmission, thereby reducing the number of towers and related infrastructure required to provide market coverage. MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology are complementary to existing wireless networks because interactive services are supported within the mobile device using the CDMA2000 1X, 1xEV-DO or WCDMA wireless link. Furthermore, the MediaFLO MDS can seamlessly integrate multicasting services provided over 3G operator networks with such services provided over a stand-alone FLO network. MediaFLO USA plans to use nationwide 700 MHz spectrum for which we hold licenses and will be procuring and distributing content which we will make available wholesale to our wireless operator customers. Distribution, marketing, billing and customer relationships are expected to remain services provided by our wireless 13 Table of Contents operator customers. Effective as of the beginning of fiscal 2005, we presented the operating results of MediaFLO USA in the QSI segment. We are evaluating a number of corporate structuring options, including distributing our ownership interest in MediaFLO USA to our stockholders in a spin-off transaction. Other Businesses QUALCOMM Wireless Systems (QWS). The QWS division sells products and provides services under new commercial agreements to Globalstar LLC (New Globalstar) and its service providers and other customers. New Globalstar operates a worldwide, low-Earth-orbit satellite-based telecommunications system. We received membership interests in New Globalstar in fiscal 2004 as a result of its emergence from bankruptcy related to our claims as a creditor. On October 5, 2004, we received an additional ownership interest in New Globalstar as partial consideration for the sale of mobile phones. At September 25, 2005, we held an approximate 6.7% interest in New Globalstar in our QSI segment. QUALCOMM MEMS Technologies (QMT). QMT is developing display technology for the full range of consumer-targeted mobile products. QMT’s iMoD technology, based on a micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics, is expected to provide substantial performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display technologies. We expect the iMoD product to deliver a vivid and realistic display image quality that can withstand extreme temperatures and be viewed in virtually any environment, including bright sunlight. Displays have become a key factor in the overall power consumption of wireless devices, with the increasing use of vibrant color screens and multimedia applications that generate rapidly changing images. The iMoD product is expected to offer significantly lower power consumption than existing display products, thereby extending the battery life of wireless devices. With the inclusion of color displays in all types of wireless phones, including models at the low end of the market, the cost of the display has become an even more significant factor in the overall cost of the handset. An iMoD display should cost less to manufacture than a comparable liquid crystal display because it requires fewer components and processing steps, thus enabling advanced multimedia capabilities on all tiers of mobile devices. Research and Development The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and develop new products and technologies. Our research and development team has a strong and proven track record of innovation in wireless communications technologies. Our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 totaled approximately $1.01 billion, $720 million and $523 million, respectively. Research and development expenditures in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 were primarily related to integrated circuit product and other initiatives to support lower cost phones, multimedia applications, high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork products and technologies, including CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, WCDMA, HSDPA, GSM/GPRS/EDGE and OFDMA, and the development of our FLO technology, MediaFLO MDS and iMoD display products using MEMS technology. In fiscal 2005, we opened six research and development centers in California, India, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. The centers support our global CDMA development activities and ongoing efforts to advance CDMA technologies. We continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help grow the wireless telecommunications market and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities. In addition to internally sponsored research and development, we perform contract research and development for various government agencies and commercial contractors. Sales and Marketing QCT markets and sells products in the United States through a sales force based in San Diego, California, and internationally through a direct sales force based in South Korea, Japan, China, Taiwan, Germany and the United Kingdom. QCT’s sales and marketing strategy is to achieve design wins with technology leaders in our targeted markets by, among other things, providing high performance products combined with superior field application and engineering support. The QIS division of QWI develops and sells business-to-business products and services to companies worldwide. The sales and marketing team is headquartered in San Diego with offices worldwide. The QIS sales and marketing strategy is to enter into contracts with companies in target markets by providing comprehensive technology and services to help them provide next-generation wireless data services that combine wireless Internet, data and voice capabilities. 14 Table of Contents The QWBS division of QWI markets and sells products through a sales force, partnerships and distributors based in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, South Korea and Mexico. QWBS’ sales and marketing strategy is to enter into contracts with companies in our target markets by providing high-value wireless fleet management products and services to the transportation, logistics and construction equipment industries. Marketing activities include participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of business cases, competitive analyses and other marketing collateral and programs. Corporate Marketing provides company information on products, strategies and technology to industry analysts and publications which are also supported on our Internet website. We also developed and maintain an Internet website (www.3Gtoday.com) dedicated to highlighting commercial 3G wireless services and products around the world. Our CDMA Development Center in China is a 36,000 square foot facility in Beijing in what is popularly known as “China’s Silicon Valley.” The center provides training, support and equipment testing services primarily to manufacturers and mobile operators in China, as well as supporting research and development of 3G wireless standards based on CDMA. The center houses the QUALCOMM CDMA University which offers classroom and hands-on training programs on CDMA2000 and WCDMA. The center also offers a highly-integrated test program designed to enable time and cost savings when bringing products to market. The center and its staff are focused on providing China with the resources to enable the most timely development of its mobile communications industry using our technologies and applications, such as cdmaOne, CDMA2000 1X/1xEV-DO, GSM1x and gpsOne. The center also supports the transfer of certain hardware and software technologies for product development and manufacturing to licensed manufacturers, as well as network design and optimization methods to operators and government bodies in China. Competition Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as businesses and governments realize the market potential of telecommunications products and services. We have facilitated competition in the CDMA market by licensing a large number of manufacturers. Although we have attained a major position in the industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us, including: • longer operating histories and presence in key markets; • greater name recognition; • access to larger customer bases; and • greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we have. These competitors may have more established relationships and greater technical, marketing, sales and distribution capabilities and greater access to channels in markets not currently deploying wireless communications technology or markets primarily deploying 2G wireless communications technology. These competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ decisions to purchase products or license technology from us or to use alternative technologies. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. In addition, many of these companies are licensees of our technology and have established market positions, trade names, trademarks, patents, copyrights, intellectual property rights and substantial technological capabilities. We may face competition throughout the world with new technologies and services introduced in the future as additional competitors enter the market place for products based on 3G standards. Although we intend to continuously develop improvements to existing technologies, as well as potential new technologies, there may be a continuing competitive threat from companies introducing alternative versions of wireless technologies. We also expect that the price we charge for our products and services may continue to decline as competition intensifies. QCT Segment. The markets in which our QCT segment operates are intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide with a number of United States and international semiconductor designers and manufacturers in the United States and internationally. As a result of the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes, we anticipate that additional competitors will enter this market. We believe that the principal competitive factors for CDMA integrated circuit providers to our addressed 15 Table of Contents markets are product performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time to market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and customer support. The specific bases on which we compete against alternative CDMA integrated circuit providers vary by product platform. We also compete against alternative wireless communications technologies including, but not limited to, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, TDMA and analog. QCT’s current competitors include major semiconductor companies such as Freescale, Infineon, NEC, Philips, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom, as well as major telecommunication equipment companies such as Ericsson, Matsushita, Motorola, Nokia and Samsung, who design their own integrated circuits and software for certain products. QCT also faces competition from some start-up ventures. Our competitors may devote a significantly greater amount of their financial, technical, marketing and other resources to aggressively market competitive telecommunications systems or to develop and adopt competitive digital cellular technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect QCT. Moreover, competitors may offer more attractive product pricing or financing terms than we do as a means of gaining access to the wireless telecommunications markets. We have entered into licensing agreements with certain companies, including EoNex Technologies, Infineon, Lucent, Motorola, NEC, Philips, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. These licenses permit the licensees to manufacture CDMA-based integrated circuits using certain of our intellectual property for sale to CDMA-based phone manufacturers. In exchange for granting the licenses, we are entitled to receive license fees, royalties (determined as a percentage of the selling price of the integrated circuits) and/or royalty-free cross-licenses, which allow us to use these companies’ CDMA and, in some cases, non-CDMA intellectual property for specified purposes. In every case, the phone manufacturers’ sales of CDMA-based phones are subject to the payment of royalties to us on the products into which the integrated circuits are incorporated in accordance with the manufacturers’ separate licensing arrangements with us. We license our CDMA intellectual property to the competitors of our QCT segment to support the deployment of CDMA-based systems and technologies worldwide in order to grow our royalty revenues from customers licensed to sell CDMA phones and equipment. We believe that, if CDMA based systems expand sufficiently, QCT’s business will also grow, even if we lose market share. To date, most cdmaOne and CDMA2000 phone manufacturer licensees have elected to purchase their CDMA-based integrated circuits from us. QTL Segment. As part of our strategy to generate new and ongoing licensing revenues, significant resources are allocated to develop leading edge technology for the telecommunications industry. In addition to licensing manufacturers of subscriber and network equipment, we have made licenses to our essential CDMA patents available to competitors of our QCT segment. We face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technology and services. On a worldwide basis, we currently compete primarily with two digital wireless telecommunications technologies, TDMA and GSM/GPRS. TDMA has been deployed primarily in the United States and Latin America. Variations of TDMA have also been deployed in other countries, such as PDC (Personal Digital Cellular) in Japan and PAS (Personal Access System) in China. GSM has been extensively utilized in Europe, much of Asia other than Japan and Korea, and certain other markets. To date, GSM has been more widely adopted than CDMA, however, CDMA technologies have been adopted for all third generation wireless systems. In addition, many GSM operators have deployed or are expected to deploy GPRS, a packet data technology, as a 2.5G bridge technology, and some GSM operators plan to deploy EDGE, while waiting for third generation WCDMA to become available and/or more cost effective for their system. A limited number of operators have started testing OFDMA technology, a multi-carrier transmission technique not based on CDMA technology, that divides the available spectrum into many carriers, with each carrier being modulated at a low data rate relative to the combined rate for all carriers. We have invested in the development of our own OFDMA technology and intellectual property and have recently entered into an agreement to purchase Flarion, a major developer and patent holder of OFDMA technology. QWI Segment. Existing competitors of our QWBS division offering alternatives to our products are aggressively pricing their products and services and could continue to do so in the future. In our domestic markets, we face over ten key competitors to our OmniTRACS, TruckMAIL, OmniExpress, T2 Untethered TrailerTRACS, QConnect and OmniOne products and services, as well as over six key competitors to our GlobalTRACS system. Internationally, we face several key competitors each in Europe and Mexico. These competitors are offering new value-added 16 Table of Contents products and services similar in many cases to our existing or developing technologies. Emergence of new competitors, particularly those offering low cost terrestrial-based products and current as well as future satellite-based systems, may impact margins and intensify competition in new markets. Similarly, some original equipment manufacturers of trucks and truck components are beginning to offer built-in, on-board communications and position location reporting systems that may impact our margins and intensify competition in our current and new markets. We have numerous competitors for each of our BREW products and services. These competitors are continuing to develop their products with a focus on client, provisioning, user interface, content distribution, and billing products and services. Competitors are attempting to offer value added products and services similar, in many cases, to our existing or developing BREW technologies. In some cases, competitors are continuing to explicitly attempt to displace only certain components or areas of the greater BREW offering, such as only the runtime client/device environment portion of BREW. In addition, certain competitors in the computing and device manufacturing industries are now beginning to more aggressively attempt to replicate the entire BREW system offering that includes both runtime device environments and billing/distribution systems. Similarly, some operators are developing their own solutions by piecing together both internal and external components. Emergence of these and other new competitors may adversely impact our margins and market share. Patents, Trademarks and Trade Secrets We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and proprietary information to maintain and enhance our competitive position. We have been granted more than 1,540 United States patents and have over 2,500 patent applications pending in the United States. The vast majority of such patents and patent applications relate to our CDMA digital wireless communications technology. We also have and will continue to actively file for patent protection outside the United States and have received numerous CDMA patents with broad coverage throughout most of the world, including China, Japan, South Korea, Europe, Brazil, India and elsewhere. The standards bodies and the ITU have been informed that we hold essential intellectual property rights for all 3G standards that are based on CDMA. We have committed to the ITU to license our essential patents for these CDMA standards on a fair and reasonable basis free from unfair discrimination. Under our CDMA license agreements, licensees are generally required to pay us a license fee as well as ongoing royalties based on a percentage of the net selling price of CDMA subscriber, infrastructure, test and integrated circuits products. License fees are paid in one or more installments, while royalties generally continue throughout the life of the licensed patents. Our CDMA license agreements generally provide us rights to use certain of our licensees’ technology and intellectual property rights to manufacture and sell certain CDMA products, e.g., CDMA application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and related software, subscriber units and/or infrastructure equipment. In most cases, our use of our licensees’ technology and intellectual property is royalty free. However, under some of the licenses, if we incorporate certain of the licensed technology or intellectual property into certain products, we are obligated to pay royalties on the sale of such products. Under their existing agreements with us, two entities were entitled to share in a percentage of the royalty revenues that we receive from third parties for their sale of certain CDMA products. Our sharing obligation under one of these arrangements expired in fiscal 2005, and the other sharing obligation will expire in fiscal 2006. As part of our strategy to generate licensing revenues and support worldwide adoption of our CDMA technology, we license to other companies, including the competitors of our QCT segment, the rights to design, manufacture and sell products utilizing certain portions of our CDMA intellectual property. Our current publicly-announced CDMA licensees are listed on our Internet website (www.qualcomm.com). Employees As of September 25, 2005, we employed approximately 9,300 full-time, part-time and temporary employees. During fiscal 2005, the number of employees increased by approximately 300 from acquisitions and 1,400 primarily from increases in engineering resources. Available Information Our Internet address is www.qualcomm.com. There we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our Internet website. 17 Table of Contents The information found on our Internet website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains electronic versions of our reports on its website at www.sec.gov. Executive Officers Our executive officers and their ages as of September 25, 2005 are as follows: Irwin Mark Jacobs, age 71, one of the founders of the Company, has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors since July 1985. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company from July 1985 to June 2005. Dr. Jacobs received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and his M.S. and Sc.D. degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Irwin Jacobs is the father of Dr. Paul Jacobs, our Chief Executive Officer, and Jeffrey A. Jacobs, President of QUALCOMM Global Development. Paul E. Jacobs, age 42, has served as a director since June 2005 and as our Chief Executive Officer since July 2005. He served as Group President of the QUALCOMM Wireless & Internet Group from July 2001 to June 2005. In addition, he served as an Executive Vice President from February 2000 to June 2005. Dr. Jacobs holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and a Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley. Dr. Paul Jacobs is the son of Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, Chairman of our Board of Directors, and the brother of Jeffrey A. Jacobs, President of QUALCOMM Global Development. Steven R. Altman, age 44, has served as our President since July 2005. He served as an Executive Vice President from November 1997 to June 2005 and as President of our Technology Licensing division from September 1995 to April 2005. Mr. Altman received a B.S. degree from Northern Arizona University and a J.D. from the University of San Diego. Sanjay K. Jha, age 42, has served as Group President, QUALCOMM CDMA Technologies (QCT) since February 2004 and as an Executive Vice President since December 2003. He was appointed President of QCT in January 2003. He served as a Senior Vice President from August 2000 to March 2002 and subsequently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of QUALCOMM Technologies & Ventures from March 2002 to January 2003. Dr. Jha holds a Ph.D. in Electronic and Electrical Engineering from Strathclyde University, Scotland and a B.S. degree in Engineering from the University of Liverpool, England. William E. Keitel, age 52, has served as an Executive Vice President since December 2003 and as our Chief Financial Officer since February 2002. He previously served as a Senior Vice President and as our Corporate Controller from May 1999 to February 2002. Mr. Keitel received a M.B.A. from Arizona State University and a B.A. degree in Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin. Roberto Padovani, age 51, has served as an Executive Vice President and as our Chief Technology Officer since January 2002. He previously served as Senior Vice President from July 1996 to July 2001 and as Executive Vice President from July 2001 to January 2002 of our Corporate Research and Development. Dr. Padovani received a Laureate degree from the University of Padova, Italy and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, all in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Marvin Blecker, age 58, has served as President of QUALCOMM Technology Licensing (QTL) since April 2005. From November 2001 to April 2005 he served as General Manager of QTL, as well as Senior Vice President of that division from October 1995 to November 2001. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mathematics and a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering-Systems Science from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, New York (now Polytechnic University). Jeffrey A. Jacobs, age 39, has served as President of QUALCOMM Global Development since May 2001. He served as Senior Vice President of Business Development from June 1999 to May 2001. Mr. Jacobs holds a B.A. degree in International Economics from the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Jeffrey Jacobs is the son of Dr. Irwin Mark Jacobs, Chairman of our Board of Directors, and the brother of Dr. Paul E. Jacobs, a member of our Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer. 18 Table of Contents Margaret “Peggy” L. Johnson, age 43, has served as President of QUALCOMM Internet Services (QIS) since July 2001. Prior to that time she served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of QIS from September 2000 to July 2001. Ms. Johnson holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from San Diego State University. Louis M. Lupin, age 50, has served as a Senior Vice President and as our General Counsel since September 2000. Mr. Lupin received a B.A. degree from Swarthmore College and a J.D. from Stanford Law School. Daniel L. Sullivan, age 54, has served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources since August 2001. He served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources from February 1996 to July 2001. Dr. Sullivan holds a Ph.D. in Organization Communication from the University of Nebraska. He also holds B.S and M.A. degrees in Communication from Illinois State University and West Virginia University, respectively. RISK FACTORS You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Businesses If CDMA technology deployment does not expand as anticipated, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. We focus our business primarily on developing, patenting and commercializing CDMA technology for wireless telecommunications applications. In addition, with the anticipated acquisition of Flarion, there will be an increased emphasis on developing, patenting and commercializing OFDMA technology. Other digital wireless communications technologies, particularly GSM technology, have been more widely deployed than CDMA technology. OFDMA has not been widely deployed commercially. Notwithstanding our portfolio of OFDMA/OFDM intellectual property, technology and products, if CDMA technology does not become the preferred wireless communications industry standard in the countries where our products and those of our customers and licensees are sold, or if wireless operators do not select CDMA for their networks or update their current networks to any CDMA-based third generation technology, our business and financial results could suffer. Further, if OFDMA technology is not adopted and deployed commercially, our anticipated investment in Flarion and OFDMA technology may not provide us a significant return on investment. To increase our revenues and market share in future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment of third generation (3G) wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our CDMA technology. Although wireless network operators have commercially deployed CDMA2000 and WCDMA, we cannot predict the timing or success of further commercial deployments of CDMA2000, WCDMA or other CDMA systems. If existing deployments are not commercially successful, or if new commercial deployments of CDMA2000, WCDMA or other CDMA systems are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. In addition, our business could be harmed if wireless network operators deploy competing technologies or switch existing networks from CDMA to GSM or if wireless network operators introduce new technologies. A limited number of operators have started testing OFDMA technology, but there can be no assurance that OFDMA will be adopted or deployed commercially or that we will be successful in developing and marketing OFDMA products. Although we have hundreds of issued or pending patents relating to applications of GPRS, EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA and multi in, multi out (MIMO), there can be no assurance that our patent portfolio in these areas would be as valuable as our CDMA portfolio. Our business and the deployment of our technologies are dependent on the success of our customers and licensees. Our licensees may incur lower operating margins on products based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies due to greater competition in the relevant market or other factors. If CDMA phone and/or infrastructure manufacturers exit the CDMA market, the deployment of CDMA technology could be negatively affected, and our business could suffer. 19 Table of Contents Our three largest customers accounted for 39%, 40% and 43% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The loss of any one of our major customers or any reduction in the demand for devices utilizing our CDMA technology could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of operating results. QCT Segment. The loss of any one of our QCT segment’s significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or deferral and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. Accordingly, unless and until our QCT segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of future purchase orders, if any, from these customers. Factors that may impact the size and timing of orders from customers of our QCT segment include, among others, the following: • the product requirements of these customers; • the financial and operational success of these customers; • the success of these customers’ products that incorporate our products; • value added features which drive replacement rates; • shortages of key products and components; • fluctuations in channel inventory levels; • the success of products sold to our customers by licensed competitors; • the rate of deployment of new technology by the wireless network operators and the rate of adoption of new technology by the end consumers; • the extent to which certain customers successfully develop and produce CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software to meet their own needs; • general economic conditions; • changes in governmental regulations in countries where we or our customers currently operate or plan to operate; and • widespread illness. QTL Segment. Our QTL segment derives royalty revenues from sales of CDMA products by our licensees. Although we have more than 130 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenue from a limited number of licensees. Our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. We have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and we cannot assure you that our licensees will be successful or that the demand for wireless communications devices and services offered by our licensees will continue to increase. Any reduction in the demand for or any delay in the development, introduction or delivery of wireless communications devices utilizing our CDMA technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. Reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices utilizing our CDMA technology, without a comparable increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Weakness in the value of foreign currencies in which our customers’ products are sold may reduce the amount of royalties payable to us in U.S. dollars. Royalties under our license agreements are generally payable to us for the life of the patents that we license under our agreements. The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. In order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. Although in the past we have amended many of our license agreements to include later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements, there is no assurance that we will be able to modify our license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. 20 Table of Contents Changes in financial accounting standards related to share-based payments are expected to have a significant effect on our reported results. The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently issued a revised standard that requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. The adoption of the new standard is expected to have a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. As a result, our adoption of the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. We depend upon a limited number of third party manufacturers to provide component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. We are expanding our manufacturing model to purchase silicon wafers from foundries and to contract directly with third party manufacturers for assembly and test services. Any disruptions in the operations of, or the loss of, any of these third parties could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and increase our cost of sales. Our ability to meet customer demands depends, in part, on available manufacturing capacity and our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in component supply, an inability of our partners to react to rapid shifts in demand or a significant increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. Component shortages could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers to ship products on a timely basis and our customers’ demand for our products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. Additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships potentially resulting in reduced market share. QCT Segment. Die, cut from silicon wafers, are the essential components for all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Instead, we utilize a fabless model whereby we rely on a limited number of independent third party manufacturers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The majority of our integrated circuits are purchased on a turnkey basis, in which our foundry partners are responsible for supplying fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. IBM, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and United Microelectronics are the primary foundry partners for our family of baseband integrated circuits. Atmel, Freescale (formerly Motorola Semiconductor) and IBM are the primary foundry partners for our family of radio frequency and analog integrated circuits. Our fabless model provides us the flexibility to select suppliers that offer advanced process technologies to manufacture, assemble and test our integrated circuits at a competitive price. We work closely with our customers to expedite their processes for evaluating new integrated circuits from our foundry suppliers; however, in some instances, transition of integrated circuit production to a new foundry supplier may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific integrated circuits to individual customers. To the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our manufacturers over a specific time period or in any specific quantity, our manufacturers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of products for their other customers while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. Some of our integrated circuits products are only available from single sources, with which we do not have long-term contracts. Our reliance on a sole-source vendor primarily occurs during the start-up phase of a new product. Once a product reaches a significant volume level, we typically establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical. Our reliance on sole or limited-source vendors involves risks. These risks include possible shortages of capacity, product performance shortfalls and reduced controls over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality assurance, quantity and costs. During fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced supply constraints which resulted in our inability to meet certain customer demands. These constraints substantially diminished during the second quarter of fiscal 2005 and were alleviated in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, with improvements to supply more closely aligning with our then current customer demand profile. To improve the supply and delivery of integrated circuits from our suppliers, we worked with our existing suppliers to increase available manufacturing capacity and increased and extended our firm orders to our suppliers. 21 Table of Contents To further enable flexibility of supply and access to potential new foundry suppliers, and in response to the complexity of our product roadmap, we began to expand our manufacturing model in fiscal 2005 to include purchasing silicon wafers directly from semiconductor manufacturing foundries. Under our expanded manufacturing model, we contract directly with third party manufacturers for assembly and test services, and we ship the final integrated circuits to our customers. We expect to increase the volume of our silicon wafer purchases directly from our foundry suppliers and to continue to purchase products on a turnkey basis. We do not have a history working with these third parties under this expanded manufacturing model, and their services and volume of activity may not be completely reliable during the ramp-up stages. We cannot guarantee that this change will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. In addition to the expansion of our manufacturing model, our operations may also be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of the facilities of our manufacturers and may be harmed by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. These disruptions may include labor strikes, work stoppages, widespread illness, terrorism, war, political unrest, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. These disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. The loss of a significant third party manufacturer or the inability of a third party manufacturer to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers. In addition, one or more of our manufacturers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture CDMA integrated circuits that compete with our products. In this event, the manufacturer could elect to allocate scarce components and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us. In the event of a loss of or a decision to change a key third party manufacturer, qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. We and our licensees are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the United States. A significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international markets. We market, sell and service our products internationally. We have established sales offices around the world. We expect to continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. If we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, we may not be able to maintain a desired rate of growth in our business. Our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including China, India, Japan, Korea, North America, South America and Europe. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. Consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were 82%, 79% and 77% in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Because most of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold in U.S. dollars become less price-competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. In many international markets, barriers to entry are created by long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local service providers and protective regulations, including local content and service requirements. In addition, our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before we realize returns, if any, on our investments. Our business could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: • changes in legal or regulatory requirements, including regulations governing the materials used in our products; • difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions’ competition laws; • our inability to succeed in significant foreign markets, such as China, India or Europe; 22 Table of Contents • cultural differences in the conduct of business; • difficulty in attracting qualified personnel and managing foreign activities; • recessions in economies outside the United States; • longer payment cycles for and greater difficulties collecting accounts receivable; • export controls, tariffs and other trade protection measures; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • inflation and deflation; • nationalization, expropriation and limitations on repatriation of cash; • social, economic and political instability; • natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; • taxation; and • changes in laws and policies affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices and loans. In addition to general risks associated with our international sales, licensing activities and operations, we are also subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we do business. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards will not be changed or be enforced in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. Declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. During fiscal 2005, 37% and 21% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in South Korea and Japan, respectively, as compared to 43% and 18%, respectively, during fiscal 2004, and 45% and 15% during fiscal 2003, respectively. These customers based in South Korea and Japan sell their products to markets worldwide, including Japan, South Korea, North America, South America and Europe. A significant downturn in the economies of Asian countries where many of our customers and licensees are located, particularly the economies of South Korea and Japan, or the economies of the major markets they serve would materially harm our business. The wireless markets in China and India, among others, represent growth opportunities for us. If wireless carriers in China or India, or the governments of China or India, make technology deployment or other decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the expansion of CDMA technologies our business could be harmed. We are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on phone sales to their customers. Increases in phone prices that negatively impact phone sales can result from changes in regulatory policies related to phone subsidies. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South Korea, Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. We expect that royalty revenues from international licensees based upon sales of their products outside of the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in the future. Our royalty revenues from international licensees are denominated in U.S. dollars. To the extent that such licensees’ products are sold in foreign currencies, any royalties that we derive as a result of such sales are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In addition, if the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenue, harm our ability to collect receivables, or increase the U.S. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. 23 Table of Contents Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: • Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign investees that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. • Investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. • Certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. If these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and cash flows. • We may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, and they may limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees’ sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. • Our trade receivables are generally U. S. dollar denominated. Any significant increase in the value of the dollar against our customers’ or licensees’ functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers’ or licensees’ cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to sell products and collect receivables. • Strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because the activities of our foreign subsidiaries may become more expensive in U.S. dollars. • Strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our cash flows and investment results because strategic investment obligations denominated in foreign currencies may become more expensive, and the U.S. dollar cost of equity in losses of foreign investees may increase. We may engage in strategic transactions that could result in significant charges or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. From time to time, we engage in strategic transactions with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. In the past we have acquired businesses, entered into joint ventures and made strategic investments in or loans to CDMA wireless operators, early stage companies, or venture funds to support global adoption of CDMA and the use of the wireless Internet. Most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. We cannot assure you that our strategic investments (either those we currently hold or future investments) will generate financial returns or that they will result in increased adoption or continued use of CDMA technologies. We will continue to evaluate potential strategic transactions and alternatives that we believe may enhance stockholder value. These potential future transactions may include a variety of different business arrangements, including acquisitions, spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and equity or debt investments. Although our goal is to maximize stockholder value, such transactions may impair stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business and the trading price of our stock. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges and/or to consolidate or record our equity in losses and may pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could harm our operating results and business. Defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. Similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. Our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. Further, because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers’ products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. Defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other 24 Table of Contents difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. We and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects which could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs which are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. Resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. Additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3G wireless markets. Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Global economic conditions can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and wireless network operators. We cannot predict negative events, such as war, that may have adverse effects on the economy or on phone inventories at CDMA equipment manufacturers and operators. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause disruptions to the global economy and to the wireless communications industry and create uncertainties. Recent reports suggest that inflation could have adverse effects on the global economy and capital markets. Inflation could adversely affect our customers, including their ability to obtain financing, upgrade wireless networks and purchase our products and services, and our end consumers, by lowering their standards of living and diminishing their ability to purchase wireless devices based on our technology. Inflation could also increase our costs of raw materials and operating expenses and harm our business in other ways. Should such negative events occur, subsequent economic recovery may not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. In addition, because we intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our industry is subject to competition that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees and/or declining average selling prices for our licensees’ products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. Competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors, including: • comprehensiveness of products and technologies; • value added features which drive replacement rates; • manufacturing capability; • scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers’ immediate and future network requirements; • product performance and quality; • design and engineering capabilities; • compliance with industry standards; • time to market; • system cost; and • customer support. This competition may result in increased development costs and reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling price of our licensees’ products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. While pricing pressures from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees’ products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will occur. We anticipate that additional competitors 25 Table of Contents will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. Companies that promote non-CDMA technologies (e.g., GSM and WiMax) and companies that design competing CDMA integrated circuits are included amongst our competitors. Examples of such competitors (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include Ericsson, Freescale, Intel, NEC, Broadcom, Nokia, Samsung, Agere, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. With respect to our QWBS business, our competitors are aggressively pricing products and services and are offering new value-added products and services which may impact margins, intensify competition in current and new markets and harm our ability to compete in certain markets. Many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: • longer operating histories and presence in key markets; • greater name recognition; • motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; • access to larger customer bases; and • greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we have. As a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. In addition, we anticipate additional competitors will enter the market for products based on 3G standards. These competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying wireless communications technology. These competitors also may have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect our customers’ decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. General economic or other conditions causing a downturn in the market for our products or technology, and in turn affecting the timing of customer orders or causing cancellations or rescheduling of orders, could also adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, our customers may change delivery schedules or cancel or reduce orders without incurring significant penalties and generally are not subject to minimum purchase requirements. Our future operating results will be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers or licensees, both domestically and internationally; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; changes in the mix of technology and products developed, licensed, produced and sold; seasonal customer demand; the Flarion acquisition; and other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report and in these risk factors. Our cash investments represent a significant asset that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. These factors affecting our future operating results are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: 26 Table of Contents • announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; • receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products; • quality deficiencies in services or products; • announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; • international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; • lack of capital to invest in 3G networks; • new commercial products; • changes in recommendations of securities analysts; • government regulations, including stock option accounting and tax regulations; • energy blackouts; • acts of terrorism and war; • inflation and deflation; • widespread illness; • proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; • strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; or • rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. Our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. From time to time, we may repurchase our common stock at prices that may later be higher than the market value of the stock on the repurchase date. This could result in a loss of value for stockholders if new shares are issued at lower prices. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, stock volatility may be precipitated by failure to meet earnings expectations or other factors, such as the potential uncertainty in future reported earnings created by the adoption of option expensing and the related valuation models used to determine such expense. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products and technologies to compete successfully. New technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless Internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation and multimedia applications which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on-chip computers and signal processors. While our research and development activities have resulted in inventions relating to applications of GPRS, EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA and MIMO and hundreds of issued or pending patent applications, there can be no assurance that our patent portfolio in these areas would be as valuable as our CDMA portfolio. Further, if OFDMA technology is not adopted and deployed commercially, our anticipated investment in Flarion and OFDMA technology may not provide us a significant return on investment. We also continue to invest in the development of our BREW applications 27 Table of Contents development platform, our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology and our iMoD display technology. All of these new products and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from these products will meet our expectations. The market for our products and technology is characterized by many factors, including: • rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; • changes in customer requirements; • frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; • evolving methods for transmission of wireless voice and data communications; and • intense competition from companies with greater resources, customer relationships and distribution capabilities. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and enhancements on a timely basis. Our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy customer requirements, price our products competitively and achieve market acceptance. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology, and products and technology currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technology in commercial quantities, demand for our products and our customers’ and licensees’ products that use our technology could decrease, and our competitive position could be damaged. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, or the practices of any of the international standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. Any action we take to influence such potential changes could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. The vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our CDMA digital wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. These claims may result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products were found to infringe on another company’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products or license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. In addition, as the number of competitors in our market increases and the functionality of our products is enhanced and overlaps with the products of other companies, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time 28 Table of Contents consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. In any potential dispute involving other companies’ patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the targets of litigation. Any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our licensees, which in turn could hurt our relations with our licensees and cause our revenues to decrease. A number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various CDMA standards, GSM standards and implementations of OFDM and OFDMA systems. If we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our CDMA or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees’ products, and our profitability. Other companies or entities also may commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If any of our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. In such case, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. The high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses and deploy and expand wireless networks could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to: obtain licenses to use new frequencies; deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services; and expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services. The significant cost of licenses and wireless networks may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 3G wireless networks. Our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. If we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. Testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entails the risk of product liability. Although we believe our product liability insurance will be adequate to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability. Our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. Furthermore, not all losses associated with alleged product failure are insurable. In addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against us, our licensees or customers, could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. If wireless phones pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless phones, which would decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. In recent years, the FCC and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones. In addition, interest groups 29 Table of Contents have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless phones while driving. Any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the United States as well as foreign countries. Our QWBS business depends on the availability of satellite and other networks. Our OmniTRACS system currently operates in the United States market on leased Ku-band satellite transponders. Our primary data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease runs through October 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our United States OmniTRACS operations through fiscal 2012. A failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. QWBS terrestrial-based products rely on various wireless terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. The unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations or to our customers’ or licensees’ operations could result in a material disruption to our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers’ data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Message transmissions for QWBS operations are formatted and processed at the Network Management Center in San Diego, California, with a fully redundant backup Network Management Center located in Las Vegas, Nevada. Both centers, operated by us, are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have an adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. To the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, changes in federal income tax law and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. Government regulation may adversely affect our business. Our products and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various regulations, including FCC regulations in the United States and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. Changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the United States government and other governments or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. Our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. Certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth that have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage this growth, we must continue to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality 30 Table of Contents control and delivery and service capabilities. We also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. In addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. If we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. Key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. We continue to anticipate significant increases in human resources, particularly in engineering, through fiscal 2006. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. We may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. We do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. The loss of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to design, develop and commercialize our products and technology. Since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of long-term vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. To the extent that new regulations make it less attractive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may also be harmed. In addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have purchased reduced coverage at substantially higher cost than in the past. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. 31 Table of Contents Our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and Delaware law could adversely affect the performance of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides for cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors and includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to a merger or certain other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. This approval is not required in cases where certain of our directors approve the transaction or where certain minimum price criteria and other procedural requirements are met. Our certificate of incorporation also requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock to amend or change the provisions mentioned relating to the classified board, cumulative voting or the transaction approval. Under our bylaws, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders. Finally, our certificate of incorporation provides that any action required or permitted by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting rather than by any consent in writing. The classified board, transaction approval, special meeting and other charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control. These provisions may also discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices and may limit our stockholders’ ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Further, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our preferred share purchase rights agreement. These rights will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock. This right may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control without action by our stockholders. 32 Table of Contents 