Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Businesses If deployment of our technologies does not expand as expected, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. We focus our business primarily on developing, patenting and commercializing CDMA technology for wireless telecommunications applications. In addition, with the acquisition of Flarion, we have increased our emphasis on developing, patenting and commercializing OFDMA technology. Other digital wireless communications technologies, particularly GSM technology, have been more widely deployed than CDMA technology. OFDMA has not been widely deployed commercially. Notwithstanding our portfolio of OFDM/OFDMA intellectual property, technology and products, if CDMA technology does not become the preferred wireless communications industry standard in the countries where our products and those of our customers and licensees are sold, our business and financial results could suffer. If GSM wireless operators do not select CDMA for their networks or update their current networks to any CDMA-based third generation (3G) technology, our business and financial results could suffer since we generally have not generated revenues from GSM product sales. Further, if OFDMA technology is not adopted and deployed commercially, our investments in OFDMA technology may not provide us an adequate return. Our business and the deployment of our technologies, products and services are dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and CDMA-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. Our licensees and CDMA-based wireless operators may incur lower operating margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition in the relevant market or other factors. If CDMA-based wireless operators, wireless device and/or infrastructure manufacturers exit the CDMA-based markets, the deployment of CDMA technology could be negatively affected, and our business could suffer. We are dependent on the commercial deployment of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and services to increase our revenues, and our business may be harmed if wireless networks deploy other technologies. To increase our revenues in future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment of 3G wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our CDMA technology. Although wireless network operators have commercially deployed CDMA2000 and WCDMA, we cannot predict the timing or success of further commercial deployments or expansions of CDMA2000, WCDMA or other CDMA systems. If existing deployments are not commercially successful or do not continue to grow their subscriber base, or if new commercial deployments of CDMA2000, WCDMA or other CDMA-based systems are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. In addition, our business could be harmed if wireless network operators deploy other technologies or switch existing networks from CDMA to GSM without upgrading to WCDMA or if wireless 17 Table of Contents network operators introduce new technologies. A limited number of operators have started testing OFDMA technology, but OFDMA might not be adopted or deployed commercially and we might not be successful in developing and marketing OFDMA products. Our patent portfolio may not be as successful in generating licensing income with respect to other technologies as it has been for CDMA-based technologies. Although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to GPRS, EDGE, OFDM, OFDMA and MIMO technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our CDMA portfolio licensing program. Sprint Nextel has indicated that it is planning to deploy WiMax (an OFDMA-based technology) in its 2.5 GHz spectrum, also known as the Broadband Radio Services band. Other operators are investigating deployment of WiMax. Other operators are considering LTE, being standardized by 3GPP, or UMB, being standardized by 3GPP2, as next generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands. Although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the WiMax, LTE or UMB standards, we might not achieve the same royalty revenue on such WiMax, LTE or UMB deployments as on CDMA/WCDMA, and we might not achieve the same chipset market shares within a WiMax, LTE or UMB network. Our three largest customers accounted for 41% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007 and 39% in fiscal 2006 and 2005. The loss of any one of our major customers or any reduction in the demand for devices utilizing our CDMA technology could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of operating results. The loss of any one of our QCT segment’s significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or deferral and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected levels of operating results. We derive a significant portion of our QCT segment revenues from three major customers. Accordingly, unless and until our QCT segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. Factors that may impact the size and timing of orders from customers of our QCT segment include, among others, the following: • the product requirements of our customers and the network operators; • the financial and operational success of our customers; • the success of our customers’ products that incorporate our products; • changes in wireless penetration growth rates; • value added features which drive replacement rates; • shortages of key products and components; • fluctuations in channel inventory levels; • the success of products sold to our customers by competitors; • the rate of deployment of new technology by the wireless network operators and the rate of adoption of new technology by the end consumers; • the extent to which certain customers successfully develop and produce CDMA-based integrated circuits and system software to meet their own needs or source such products from other suppliers; • general economic conditions; • changes in governmental regulations in countries where we or our customers currently operate or plan to operate; and • widespread illness. We derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues in our QTL segment from a limited number of licensees and our future success depends on the ability of our licensees to obtain market acceptance for their products. Our QTL segment derives royalty revenues primarily from sales of CDMA products by our licensees. Although we have more than 140 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenue from a limited 18 Table of Contents number of licensees. Our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. We have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. Reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices utilizing our CDMA technology, without a comparable increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to modify some of our license agreements to license later patents without modifying some of the other material terms and conditions of such license agreements, and such modifications may impact our revenues. The licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. As a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. In order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. We might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. In particular, we are party to an ongoing arbitration with Nokia Corp. relating to Nokia’s continued sales after April 9, 2007 of products that incorporate certain Qualcomm patents. One of our contentions in that proceeding (which Nokia disputes) is that such use of our patents resulted in an extension of the license agreement, which also extends our rights to sell integrated circuits under Nokia’s patents. We might not prevail in such arbitration. If we do not prevail, Nokia’s right to sell certain subscriber products (such as cellular phones, wireless personal digital assistant and other devices) under most of our patents (including many that we have declared as potentially essential to the CDMA, WCDMA and other standards), and therefore Nokia’s obligation to pay royalties to us under the terms of the current agreement, may both cease, and our rights under certain of Nokia’s patents to sell integrated circuits under the terms of the current agreement may likewise cease. If we do not prevail, and the arbitration panel does not find Nokia to have extended the license agreement, the above rights could be extended if Nokia expressly elects to extend the agreement beyond April 9, 2007, a right that is exercisable through December 31, 2008 unless earlier terminated. Efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers and component suppliers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or political actions by foreign governments that harm our business. A small number of companies have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. These strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies or unfair competition of some variety, (ii) taking questionable positions on the interpretation of contracts with us, with royalty reduction as the likely true motive, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, such as the complaints filed with the European Commission (EC) during the fourth calendar quarter of 2005 and with the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) and the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) during 2006, and (iv) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder’s ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. A number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the polices of certain standards development organizations concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. We were notified by the Competition Directorate of the EC that six companies (Nokia, Ericsson, Panasonic, Texas Instruments, Broadcom and NEC) submitted separate formal complaints accusing our business practices, with respect to licensing of patents and sales of chipsets, to be in violation of Article 82 of the EC treaty. We received the complaints, have submitted a response and have cooperated with the EC in its investigation. On October 1, 2007, the EC announced that it has initiated a proceeding though it has not decided to issue a Statement of Objections, and it has not made any conclusions as to the merits of the complaints. While this action does not indicate that the EC has found any evidence of a violation by us and we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of Article 82 of the EC treaty, if the EC determines liability as to any of the alleged violations, it could impose fines and/or require us to modify our practices. Further, the continuation of this investigation could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. Although such potential adverse findings may be appealed within the EC legal system, an adverse final determination could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and/or earnings. We also understand that 1) two U.S. companies (Texas Instruments and Broadcom) and two South Korean companies (Nextreaming Corp. and THINmultimedia Inc.) have filed complaints with the KFTC alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of South Korean 19 Table of Contents competition laws and 2) unnamed parties filed a complaint with the JFTC allegedly claiming that our business practices are, in some way a violation of the Japanese competition laws. While we have not seen any of these complaints in South Korea or Japan, we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of South Korean competition law or Japanese competition law. However, we have cooperated with the investigations of these complaints in South Korea and Japan, and any continuation or expansion of these investigations could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. An adverse final determination on these charges could have a significant negative impact on our business, including our revenues and/or earnings. Although we believe that these challenges are without merit, and we will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and our right to continue to receive a fair return for our innovations, the distractions caused by challenges to our business model and licensing program are undesirable and the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. We assume, as should investors, that such challenges will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. The enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or as readily as United States laws. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the United States, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. Recent decisions from the United States courts relating to patents may affect the ability to enforce patent rights. Within the United States Senate and House of Representatives, committee work has progressed to draft a “patent reform law,” with the House and Senate committees each having reported a different draft bill to the full House and Senate, respectively. The full House has adopted its committee’s draft bill. The end product of such work could be new patent legislation detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. Any efforts we make to inform and educate policymakers about the effects of such potential changes may absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. The vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights to one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, that patents on which we rely are invalid, or that our business practices are in some way unlawful could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. These claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products were found to infringe on another company’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. If we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. We expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the U.S. International Trade Commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products 20 Table of Contents by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage in licensing negotiations. We may not be successful and, if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers’ handsets using our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make sales of our chipsets uneconomic. Any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset market share and/or a reduction in our licensees’ sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. While we have had many settlement discussions with Broadcom, they have not been fruitful to date, and the prospects for a reasonable settlement appear to be remote. To date, Broadcom has insisted that any comprehensive settlement include the right to pass through to its customers’ intellectual property rights licensed by us to Broadcom. Any such arrangement could have a material impact on our licensing and royalty business model. In addition, as the number of competitors in our market increases and the functionality of our products expands to include additional technologies and features, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. In any potential dispute involving other companies’ patents or other intellectual property, our chipset customers could also become the targets of litigation. Any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset market share and/or a reduction in our licensees’ sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. A number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various CDMA standards, GSM standards and implementations of OFDM and OFDMA systems. If we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our CDMA or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees’ products, and our profitability. Other companies or entities also have and may again commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. Such adverse decisions could negatively impact our revenues. Even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. Our industry is subject to competition that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees and/or declining average selling prices for our licensees’ products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. Competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors, including: • comprehensiveness of products and technologies; • value added features which drive replacement rates; • manufacturing capability; • scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers’ immediate and future network requirements; • product performance and quality; • design and engineering capabilities; • compliance with industry standards; • time-to-market; • system cost; and • customer support. 21 Table of Contents This competition may result in increased development costs and reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. Reductions in the average selling price of our licensees’ products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. While pricing pressures from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees’ products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will occur. We anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. Companies that promote non-CDMA technologies (e.g. GSM and WiMax) and companies that design competing CDMA-based integrated circuits are generally included amongst our competitors or potential competitors in the United States or abroad. Examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include Broadcom, EoNex Technologies, Ericsson, Freescale, Fujitsu, Intel, LSI Corporation, NEC, Nokia, Samsung, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. With respect to our QES business, our competitors are aggressively pricing products and services and are offering new value-added products and services which may impact margins, intensify competition in current and new markets and harm our ability to compete in certain markets. Many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: • longer operating histories and presence in key markets; • greater name recognition; • motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; • access to larger customer bases; • economies of scale and cost structure advantages; and • greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we have. As a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. In addition, we anticipate additional competitors will enter the market for products based on 3G standards. These competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying CDMA-based wireless communications technology. These competitors also may have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect our customers’ decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. In addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets, that will operate in an “open source” environment. Developing open source compliant products, without imperiling the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove difficult under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. While we continue to believe our QMT Division’s IMOD displays will offer compelling advantages to the display market, there can be no assurance that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our IMOD displays. The flat panel display market is currently, and we believe will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on liquid crystal display (LCD) technology. Numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of LCDs. Additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (OLED), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. In each case, advances in LCD or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations, or can be brought to market faster than our IMOD technology. These advances in competing technologies might cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us, or not renew planned or existing relationships with us. Our QMT Division had $215 million in assets (including $128 million in goodwill) at 22 Table of Contents September 30, 2007. If we are not successful in bringing our IMOD display technology to market, our assets may become impaired, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. Successful attempts by certain companies to amend or modify Standards Development Organizations’ (SDO’s) and other industry forums’ intellectual property policies could impact our licensing business. Some companies have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by SDO’s and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. They have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the size of its essential patent portfolio. Although the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) ad hoc IPR group and the Next Generation Mobile Network industry group have thus far determined that such proposals should not be adopted as amendments to existing ETSI policies or new policies, such proposals as described above might be revisited by ETSI and might be adopted by other SDO’s or industry groups, resulting in a disadvantage to our business model either by limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the SDO’s or such other industry groups for promoting our new technologies. We depend upon a limited number of third party suppliers to manufacture component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. If these third party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing capacity in their facilities to manufacture products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or the loss of, any of these third parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenue, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on available manufacturing capacity and our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. Component shortages or declines in demand could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers to ship products on a timely basis could harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. Additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships. Our operations may also be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of our suppliers manufacturing facilities and by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. Any such disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. If the affected supplier was a sole source supplier, we may not be able to obtain the product without significant cost and delay. The loss of a significant third party supplier or the inability of a third party supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. QCT Segment. A supplier’s ability to meet our product manufacturing demand is limited mainly by their overall capacity and current capacity availability. Although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. To the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or in any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture our products. Accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. There can be no assurance that we will not experience supply constraints, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. While our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, some of our integrated circuits products are only available from single sources, with which we do not have long-term contracts. Our reliance on sole or limited-source suppliers involves significant risks including possible shortages of manufacturing capacity, poor product performance and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. The timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenue, and cost expectations. In addition, the timing of acceptance of smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. In the event of a loss of, or a decision to change a key third party supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. We work closely with our customers to expedite their processes for evaluating new integrated circuits from our foundry suppliers; however, in some instances, transition of 23 Table of Contents integrated circuit production to a new foundry supplier may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific integrated circuits to individual customers. QMT Division. QMT needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with flat panel display manufacturers or other targeted partners to support the manufacture of IMOD displays in commercial volumes. All of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain IMOD display panels and/or modules. Some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the display manufacturers’ entering into material supply relationships with us. We have expanded our QCT segment’s manufacturing model to include the purchase of completed die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and to contract directly with third party manufacturers for assembly and test services. This new production model may increase costs and lower our control over the manufacturing process. To further enable flexibility of supply and access to potential new foundry suppliers, and in response to the complexity of our product roadmap, starting in fiscal 2005, we expanded our manufacturing model to include purchasing completed die directly from semiconductor manufacturing foundries. Under our Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM) model, we contract directly with third party manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services, and we ship the completed integrated circuits to our customers. We expect to increase the volume of our purchases of completed die directly from our foundry suppliers under our IFM model as we source new products and convert existing turnkey production to our IFM model. We are unable to directly control the services provided by our semiconductor assembly and test (SAT) suppliers, including the timely procurement of packaging materials for our products, availability of assembly and test capacity, quality assurance and product delivery schedules. We have a limited history of working with the SAT suppliers under this expanded manufacturing model, and cannot guarantee that this change and our lack of control will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenue, or increase our cost of sales. Our suppliers may also be our competitors putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. One or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture CDMA-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. In this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. In addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. We cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. We, and our licensees, are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the United States. A significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international markets. We market, sell and service our products internationally. We have established sales offices around the world. We expect to continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. If we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, we may not be able to maintain a desired rate of growth in our business. Our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including China, India, Japan, South Korea, North America, South America and Europe. We distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for QTL’s licensing and royalty revenue, the domicile of our licensees. Consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were 87% in fiscal 2007 and 2006 and 82% in fiscal 2005. Because most of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold in U.S. dollars become less price-competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, and our revenues may not grow as quickly as they otherwise might in response to worldwide growth in wireless products and services. In many international markets, barriers to entry are created by long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local service providers and protective regulations, including local content and service requirements. In addition, our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for 24 Table of Contents an extended period before we realize returns, if any, on our investments. Our business could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: • difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions’ competition laws; • our inability to succeed in significant foreign markets, such as China, India or Europe; • cultural differences in the conduct of business; • difficulty in attracting qualified personnel and managing foreign activities; • longer payment cycles for and greater difficulties collecting accounts receivable; • export controls, tariffs and other trade protection measures; • nationalization, expropriation and limitations on repatriation of cash; • social, economic and political instability; • natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; • taxation; • variability in the value of the dollar against foreign currency; and • changes in laws and policies affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices and loans. We cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards will not be changed or enforced in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. The wireless markets in China and India, among others, represent growth opportunities for us. If wireless operators in China or India, or the governments of China or India, make technology deployment or other decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the expansion of CDMA technologies, our business could be harmed. We are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on wireless device sales to their customers. Increases in device prices that negatively impact device sales can result from changes in regulatory policies related to device subsidies. Limitations or changes in policy on device subsidies in South Korea, Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Global economic conditions can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and wireless network operators. We cannot predict negative events, such as war, that may have adverse effects on the economy or on wireless device inventories at CDMA-based equipment manufacturers and operators. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause disruptions to the global economy and to the wireless communications industry and create uncertainties. Recent reports suggest that inflation could have adverse effects on the global economy and capital markets. Inflation and/or deflation and economic recessions could adversely affect our customers, including their ability to obtain financing, upgrade wireless networks and purchase our products and services, and our end consumers, by lowering their standards of living and diminishing their ability to purchase wireless devices based on our technology. Inflation could also increase our costs of raw materials and operating expenses and harm our business in other ways. During fiscal 2007, 69% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in South Korea, Japan and China, as compared to 70% and 69% during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. These customers sell their products to markets worldwide, including Japan, South Korea, China, India, North America, South America and Europe. A significant downturn in the economies of Asian countries where many of our customers and licensees are located, particularly the economies of South Korea, Japan and China, or the economies of the major markets they serve would materially harm our business. Should such 25 Table of Contents negative events occur, subsequent economic recovery might not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. In addition, because we intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenue, harm our ability to collect receivables, or increase the U.S. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. We operate and invest globally. Adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: • If the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty and chipset revenues. • Declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. • Assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign investees that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. Our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. • Investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. • Certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. If these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and cash flows. • We may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, and they may limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees’ sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. • Our trade receivables are generally U.S. dollar denominated. Any significant increase in the value of the dollar against our customers’ or licensees’ functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers’ or licensees’ cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to sell products and collect receivables. • Strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because the activities of our foreign subsidiaries may become more expensive in U.S. dollars. • Strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our cash flows and investment results because strategic investment obligations denominated in foreign currencies may become more expensive, and the U.S. dollar cost of equity in losses of foreign investees may increase. We may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. From time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies, non-investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual funds, corporate bonds/notes and mortgage/asset-backed securities. Many of our strategic investments are in CDMA wireless operators, early-stage companies, or venture funds to support our business, including the global adoption of CDMA-based technologies and related services. 26 Table of Contents Most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. Our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. In addition, our other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: • retaining key employees; • maintenance of important relationships of Qualcomm and the acquired business; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business matters; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • consolidating research and development operations; and • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. We may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. Defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. Similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. If we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. Our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. For example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. The design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. Because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers’ products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. Defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. Any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. We and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects that could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs that are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. Resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. Additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3G wireless markets. Testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. The use of wireless devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. We continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. However, this issue carries the risk of general product liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. Although we carry product liability insurance to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us against losses due to product liability claims, or that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, not all losses associated with alleged product 27 Table of Contents failure are insurable. Our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to protect ourselves in other ways against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. In addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers, or us could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. MediaFLO does not fully control promotional activities necessary to stimulate demand for our services. Our MediaFLO business is a wholesale provider of mobile entertainment and information services to our operator partners. As such, we do not set the retail price of our service to the consumer, nor do we directly control the marketing and promotion of the service to the operator’s subscriber base. Therefore, we are dependent upon our operator partners to price, market and otherwise promote our services to the end users. If our operator partners do not effectively price, market and otherwise promote the service to their subscriber base, our ability to achieve the subscriber and revenue targets contemplated in our business plan will be negatively impacted. Consumer acceptance and adoption of our MediaFLO technology will have a considerable impact on the success of our MediaFLO businesses. Customer acceptance of the services our MediaFLO businesses offer is, and will continue to be, affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality, reliability and coverage of our wireless network. Consumer demand could be impacted by differences in technology, coverage and service areas, network quality, consumer perceptions, media content offerings and rate plans. Our operator partners may have difficulty retaining subscribers if we are unable to meet our customers’ expectations for network quality and coverage, customer care or content. Obtaining content that is appealing to subscribers on economically rational terms may be limited by pre-existing exclusivity agreements content providers have with their customers as well as limitations placed on some content with respect to rights for mobile programming. An inability to address those issues could limit our ability to expand our subscriber base and place us at a competitive disadvantage as well as affect our ability to attract new subscribers. Additionally, adoption and deployment of our MediaFLO technology could be adversely impacted by government regulatory practices that support a single standard other than our technology, operator selection of competing technologies or consumer preferences. Our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. Certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth and/or increased their international activities, placing significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage growth and geographic expansion, we must continue to improve and develop our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. We also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. In addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. If we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. General economic or other conditions causing a downturn in the market for our products or technology, and in turn affecting the timing of customer orders or causing cancellations or rescheduling of orders, could also adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, our customers may change delivery schedules, cancel or reduce orders without incurring significant penalties and generally are not subject to minimum purchase requirements. Our future operating results will be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers or licensees, both domestically and internationally; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; changes in the mix of technology and 28 Table of Contents products developed, licensed, produced and sold; seasonal customer demand; and other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report and in these risk factors. Our cash investments represent a significant asset that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. These factors affecting our future operating results are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. If our operating results fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: • announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; • court or regulatory body decisions or settlements regarding intellectual property licensing and patent litigation and arbitration; • receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products; • quality deficiencies in services or products; • announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; • international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; • lack of capital to invest in 3G networks; • new commercial products; • changes in recommendations of securities analysts; • general stock market volatility; • government regulations, including share-based compensation accounting and tax regulations; • energy blackouts; • acts of terrorism and war; • inflation and deflation; • widespread illness; • proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; • strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; or • rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. Our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities and patent litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, stock price volatility may be precipitated by failure to meet earnings expectations or other factors, such as the potential uncertainty in future reported earnings created by 29 Table of Contents the assumptions used for share-based compensation and the related valuation models used to determine such expense. Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products and technologies to compete successfully. New technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. In particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation and multimedia applications, which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on-chip computers and signal processors. We also continue to invest in the development of our BREW applications development platform, our MediaFLO MDS and FLO technology and our IMOD display technology. All of these new products and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from these products or the timing of the deployment of these products or technologies, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. We cannot be certain that we will make the additional advances in development that may be essential to commercialize our IMOD technology successfully. The market for our products and technology is characterized by many factors, including: • rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; • changes in customer requirements; • frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; • evolving methods for transmission of wireless voice and data communications; and • intense competition from companies with greater resources, customer relationships and distribution capabilities. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and enhancements on a timely basis. Our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy customer requirements, price our products competitively and achieve market acceptance. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology, and products and technology currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technology in commercial quantities, demand for our products and our customers’ and licensees’ products that use our technology could decrease, and our competitive position could be damaged. Changes in assumptions used to estimate the values of share-based compensation have a significant effect on our reported results. We are required to estimate and record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. This method has a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. If factors change and/or we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in future periods, the compensation expense that we record may differ significantly from amounts recorded previously, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. The accounting guidance for share-based compensation is relatively new, and best practices are not well established. The application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time. There are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will adopt different valuation models in the future. This may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of share-based payments. It may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. 30 Table of Contents Theoretical valuation models and market-based methods are evolving and may result in lower or higher fair value estimates for share-based compensation. The timing, readiness, adoption, general acceptance, reliability and testing of these methods is uncertain. Sophisticated mathematical models may require voluminous historical information, modeling expertise, financial analyses, correlation analyses, integrated software and databases, consulting fees, customization and testing for adequacy of internal controls. Market-based methods are emerging that, if employed by us, may dilute our earnings per share and involve significant transaction fees and ongoing administrative expenses. The uncertainties and costs of these extensive valuation efforts may outweigh the benefits to our investors. Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. In such case, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. In addition, tax rules may change that may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the United States based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. No provision has been made for United States federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Our future reported financial results may be adversely affected if tax or accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change or if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings. The high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. Our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. In order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. The allocation of frequencies is regulated in the United States and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. Industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to: obtain licenses to use new frequencies; deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services; expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services; and obtain new subscribers. The significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 3G wireless networks. Our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which would decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. In recent years, the FCC and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. Any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the United States as well as foreign countries. Our QES and MediaFLO businesses depend on the availability of satellite and other networks. Our OmniTRACS and OmniVision systems operate on leased Ku-band satellite transponders in the United States, Mexico and Europe. Our primary data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease for these systems runs through October 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our United States OmniTRACS and OmniVision operations through fiscal 2012. A failure to maintain adequate satellite 31 Table of Contents capacity could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. QES terrestrial-based products rely on wireless terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. The unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. The products and services that we sell for use on Globalstar Inc.’s (Globalstar) low-Earth-orbit satellite network are dependent on the availability and performance of the Globalstar satellite system. On February 6, 2007, Globalstar announced that many Globalstar satellites are experiencing an anomaly resulting in degraded performance of the amplifiers for the S-band satellite communications antenna. Globalstar stated that unless remedied, by some time in 2008, this degradation or degraded performance will have a significant adverse impact on Globalstar’s ability to provide uninterrupted two-way voice and data services on a continuous basis in any given location. On May 30, 2007, Globalstar announced that four Globalstar satellites were successfully launched, and four additional satellites are planned for launch shortly. Globalstar stated that it believes the additional satellites will augment the current operating constellation and improve two-way voice and data services until the launch of the second-generation satellite constellation, which is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2009. If the recent launch of the satellites does not remedy the problem or if Globalstar is unable to launch a second-generation satellite constellation, this degraded performance will have an adverse impact on sales of our products and services that rely on the Globalstar network. Our MediaFLO network and systems currently operate in the United States market on a leased Ku-band satellite transponder. Our primary program content and data distribution satellite transponder lease runs through December 31, 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our domestic United States MediaFLO services through fiscal 2012. Additionally our MediaFLO Transmitter Sites are monitored and controlled by a variety of terrestrial-based data circuits relying on various terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. A failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity or the unavailability or nonperformance of the terrestrial-based network systems could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations or to our customers’ or licensees’ operations could result in a material disruption to our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers’ data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Message transmissions for QES operations are formatted and processed at the Network Management Center in San Diego, California, with a fully redundant backup Network Management Center located in Las Vegas, Nevada. Content from third parties for MediaFLO operations is received, processed and retransmitted at the Broadcast Operations Center in San Diego, California. The centers, operated by us, are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have an adverse effect on our operating results. From time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. To the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Noncompliance with environmental or safety regulations could cause us to incur significant expenses and harm our business. As part of the development of our IMOD display technology, we are operating a research and development fabrication facility. The development of IMOD display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving hazardous materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development activities. Our stock repurchase program may not result in a positive return of capital to stockholders. At September 30, 2007, we have remaining authority to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock, net of put options outstanding. Our stock repurchases may not return value to stockholders because the market price of 32 Table of Contents the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Our stock purchase program is intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the program’s effectiveness. As part of our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options or engage in structured derivative transactions to reduce the cost of repurchasing stock. In the event of a significant and unexpected drop in stock price, these arrangements may require us to repurchase stock at price levels that are significantly above the then-prevailing market price of our stock. Such overpayments may have an adverse effect on the effectiveness of our overall stock repurchase program and may reduce value for our stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, changes in federal income tax law and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. Government regulation and policies of industry standards bodies may adversely affect our business. Our products and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various regulations, including FCC regulations in the United States and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. Changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the United States government and other governments or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. We hold licenses in the United States from the FCC for the spectrum referred to as Block D in the Lower 700 MHz Band (also known as TV Channel 55), covering the entire nation for use in our MediaFLO business. As a result, we are regulated by the FCC pursuant to Part 27 of the FCC’s rules, which are subject to a variety of ongoing FCC proceedings. It is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of pending FCC or other federal or state regulatory proceedings relating to our MediaFLO service or our use of the spectrum for which we hold licenses. Unless we are able to obtain relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and to introduce new products and services. In addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. The market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. In addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of U.S. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. Key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. In the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. We continue to anticipate increases in human resources, particularly in engineering, through fiscal 2008. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. We may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. We do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. To the extent that new regulations make it less attractive to grant options to employees or if stockholders do not authorize shares for the continuation of equity compensation programs in the future, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. 33 Table of Contents Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. New or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. Complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation might also be harmed. In addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have purchased reduced coverage at substantially higher cost than in the past. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Our charter documents and Delaware law could limit transactions in which stockholders might obtain a premium over current market prices. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to certain mergers or other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. Under our charter documents, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders or to act by written consent. These charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control, including those offering stockholders a premium over current market prices. These provisions may also limit our stockholders’ ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Further, our Board of Directors has the authority under Delaware law to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock, and our preferred share purchase rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. While our Board of Directors approved our preferred share purchase rights agreement to provide the board with greater ability to maximize shareholder value, these rights could deter takeover attempts that the board finds inadequate and make it more difficult to bring about a change in our ownership. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 Table of Contents 