ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business is subject to various risks. The following are some of the more significant, but not necessarily all, of the risks that could affect the financial condition or performance of the Company. The Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by one or more of the following risks. You should read this section together with the other information, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this document. General economic conditions both local and national could adversely affect the Company. The Company is affected by the general economic conditions in the local markets in which it operates, as well as national economic conditions. A significant decline in the general economic conditions as a result of inflation, recession, excessive and sustained unemployment, natural disasters, or other factors beyond the control of the Company could negatively impact growth in and/or retention of deposits, growth in and/or repayments of loans, the overall quality of the loan portfolio, and the quality of the investment portfolio. The local economic conditions generally have the most affect on the Company’s loan portfolio, whereas national economic conditions tend to have the most affect on the Company’s investment portfolio. A sustained negative environment could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and performance. Changes in market interest rates could affect the Company’s cash flows and our ability to successfully manage our interest rate risk. The Company’s profitability and financial condition depend to a great extent on our ability to manage the net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest income earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid for deposits and borrowings. The amounts of interest income and interest expense are principally driven by two factors; the market levels of interest rates, and the volumes of earning assets or interest bearing liabilities. The management of the net interest margin is accomplished by the Company’s Asset Liability Management Committee. Short term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors beyond the Company’s control and are effectively set and managed by the Federal Reserve, while longer term rates are generally determined by the market based on investors’ inflationary expectations. Thus, changes in monetary and or fiscal policy will affect both short term and long term interest rates which in turn will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if the Company does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its earning assets and interest bearing liabilities to changes in market interest rates. The Company generally attempts to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities that mature or can re-price within a one year period in order that it may maintain the maximum net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and greatly influence this ability to maintain a neutral position. Generally, the Company’s earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the difference between the volume of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities that mature or are subject to re-pricing in any period. The extent and duration of this sensitivity will depend on the cumulative difference over time, the velocity and direction of interest rate changes, and whether the Company is more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Additionally, the Asset Liability Management Committee may desire to move the Company’s position to more asset sensitive or more liability sensitive depending upon their expectation of the direction and velocity of future changes in interest rates in an 9 effort to maximize the net interest margin. Should the Company not be successful in maintaining the desired position, or should interest rates not move as anticipated, the Company’s net interest margin may be negatively impacted. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. The Company’s concentration in loans secured by real estate could, as a result of adverse market conditions, increase credit losses which could adversely impact earnings. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as a deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. Should the Company’s allowance for loan losses become inadequate, the results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses that it believes is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with the Company. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although the Company believes the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in the loan portfolio, it cannot fully predict such losses or that the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on financial performance. Consistent with the loan loss reserve methodology, the Company expects to make additions to the loan loss reserve levels as a result of its growth strategy, which may affect the Company’s short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the amount of the provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on the Company’s 10 operating results. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. Significant market declines and/or the absence of normal orderly purchases and sales may adversely affect the “market” valuations of the Company’s investment portfolio securities. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. The Company could be subject to significant and material depreciation of its investment portfolio securities if it utilizes only previous market sales prices in a disorderly or nonfunctioning market, where the only transactions have been distressed or forced sales. The Company will rely on alternative valuation methods in accordance with guidance from the FASB and other regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve, and the Securities and Exchange Commission. This market valuation process could significantly reduce the Company’s capital and or profitability. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s future success is dependent in our ability to effectively compete in the face of substantial competition from other financial institutions in our primary markets. The Company encounters significant competition for deposits, loans and other financial services from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than the Company and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, larger lending limits, more extensive branch systems, and may offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, the Company competes with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations any of which may offer more favorable financing rates and terms than the Company. Most of these non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern the Company. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have advantages in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. 11 Department of Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “Capital Purchase Program”). On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (“FDA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). More recently, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which amends certain provisions of the EESA and contains a wide array of provisions aimed at stimulating the U.S. economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and AARA and their implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the AARA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The Company’s inability to successfully implement its strategic plans and manage its growth could adversely impact earnings as well as its overall financial condition. The Company may not be able to successfully implement its strategic plans and manage its growth if it is unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities for expansion in the future. Successful management of increased growth is contingent upon whether the Company can maintain appropriate levels of capital to support its growth, maintain control over growth in expenses, maintain adequate asset quality, and successfully integrate into the organization, any businesses acquired. If the Company continues its growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring existing branches or banks, it expects to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of branch franchise expansion, it must absorb these higher expenses as it begins to generate new deposits. There is a further time lag involved in redeploying the new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, the Company’s plans to branch could depress earnings in the short run, even if it efficiently executes a branching strategy leading to long-term financial benefits. The Company is exposed to both operational and acquisition integration risks that could adversely affect the Company. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputation risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. These risks are not dissimilar to those faced by most other financial institutions. The Company may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and operating efficiencies in an acquisition. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired entity. In addition, the markets and industries in which the Company and its potential acquisition targets operate, are highly competitive. The Company may lose existing customers or the customers of an acquired entity as a result of its acquisition. The Company also may lose key personnel, either from the acquired entity or from itself, as a result of an acquisition. These factors could contribute to the Company not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all. Future business acquisitions could be material to the Company and it may issue additional shares of common stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interest. Acquisitions also could require the Company to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In such a case, it could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. 12 The accounting, disclosure, and reporting standards set by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation and presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Significant changes in legislation and or regulations could adversely impact the Company. The Company is subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and legislation by both state and federal banking authorities. Many of the regulations the Company is governed by, are intended to protect depositors, the public, or the insurance funds maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, not shareholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain the Company’s rate of growth, and changes in regulations could adversely affect it. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations may place banks in at competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate profitably. The Company’s continued success is largely dependent on key management team members. The Company is a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. Future growth is expected to be driven by a large part in the relationships maintained with customers. While the Company has assembled an experienced and talented senior management team, maintaining this team, while at the same time developing other managers in order that management succession can be achieved, is not assured. The unex ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 