ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial. General economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect us. We are affected by the general economic conditions in the local markets in which we operate. Our market has experienced a significant downturn in which we have seen falling home prices, rising foreclosures and an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies. If economic conditions in our market do not improve, we could experience any of the following consequences, each of which could further adversely affect our business: · demand for our products and services could decline; · loan losses may increase; and · problem assets and foreclosures may increase. We could experience further adverse consequences in the event of a prolonged economic downturn, which could impact collateral values or cash flows of the borrowing businesses and, as a result, our primary source of repayment could be insufficient to service their debt. Future economic conditions in our market will depend on factors outside of our control such as political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government, military and fiscal policies and inflation. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate could, as a result of adverse market conditions, increase credit losses which could adversely impact earnings. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area, which could result in adverse consequences to us in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in our market. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 77% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. A further significant decline in real estate values in our market would mean that the collateral for many of our loans would provide less security. As a result, we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans because our ability to fully recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would be diminished. In addition, a number of our loans are dependent on successful completion of real estate projects and demand for homes, both of which could be affected adversely by a decline in the real estate markets. We could experience credit losses that adversely affect our earnings. 10 Table of Contents Should our allowance for loan losses become inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. In addition, we maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within our loan portfolio. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing loans were $39.0 million, an increase of $15.2 million from $23.8 million at December 31, 2009. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. During fiscal 2010, our provision for loan losses was $7.8 million and our loan loss allowance to total loans was 4.03% at December 31, 2010. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in the loan portfolio, it cannot fully predict such losses or that the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Additional problems with asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provisions for loan losses to increase further, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the amount of the provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. We have entered into a written agreement with the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, which will require us to dedicate a significant amount of resources to comply with the agreement. We entered into a written agreement with the Bureau of Financial Institutions and Federal Reserve on June 30, 2010. Among other things, the written agreement requires us to significantly exceed the capital level required to be classified as “well capitalized,” to develop and implement written plans to improve our credit risk management and compliance systems, oversight functions, operating and financial management and capital plans. While subject to the written agreement, we expect that our management and board of directors will be required to focus considerable time and attention on taking corrective actions to comply with its terms. We also will hire third party consultants and advisors to assist us in complying with the written agreement, which could increase our non-interest expense and reduce our earnings. Our expense associated with third party consultants in relation to complying with the written agreement was $527 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Bank has complied with the initial requirements of the written agreement, including submitting plans to significantly exceed the capital level required to be classified as “well capitalized”, improve corporate governance, strengthen board oversight of management and operations, strengthen credit risk management and administration, and improve asset quality. The Bank continues to address the requirements of the written agreement, as well as, monitor, expand and revise all items to ensure compliance. There also is no guarantee that we will successfully address the Bureau of Financial Institution’s and Federal Reserve’s concerns in the written agreement or that we will be able to comply with it. If we do not comply with the written agreement, we could be subject to civil monetary penalties, further regulatory sanctions and/or other regulatory enforcement actions, including, ultimately, a regulatory takeover of the Bank. An inability to improve our regulatory capital position could adversely affect our operations. At December 31, 2010, we were classified as “adequately capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes. Until we become “well capitalized” for regulatory capital purposes, we cannot renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and we may not offer interest rates on our deposit accounts that are significantly higher than the average rates in our market area. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract new deposits as our existing brokered deposits mature and do not rollover and to retain or increase non-brokered deposits. If we are not able to attract new deposits, our ability to fund our loan portfolio may be adversely affected. In addition, we will pay higher insurance premiums to the FDIC, which will reduce our earnings. 11 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital. Our written agreement with the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve will require us to develop a written plan to maintain sufficient capital, and we may have to sell additional securities in order to generate additional capital. We may seek to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, preferred stock, securities convertible into common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock. Under our articles of incorporation, we have additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock that we can issue from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without further action by the shareholders, except where shareholder approval is required by law or the Nasdaq Stock Market. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of any such sales. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings. We may be subject to prompt corrective action by our regulators if our risk based capital ratio declines below 8%. Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act requires insured depository institutions and federal banking regulators to take certain actions promptly to resolve capital deficiencies at insured depository institutions. Section 38 establishes mandatory and discretionary restrictions on any insured depository institution that fails to remain at least adequately capitalized, which could include: submissions and implementations of acceptable capital plans, restrictions on the payment of dividends and certain management fees, increased supervisory monitoring, restrictions as to asset growth, branching and new business lines without regulatory approval, restriction of senior officer compensation, placement into receivership, restriction of entering into certain material transactions, restriction of extending credit, restriction of making any material changes in accounting methods, and restrictions as to undertaking covered transactions. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Our small-to-medium sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium sized businesses. These businesses generally have less capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact this major economic sector in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Changes in market interest rates could affect our cash flows and our ability to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Our profitability and financial condition depend to a great extent on our ability to manage the net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest income earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid for deposits and borrowings. The amounts of interest income and interest expense are principally driven by two factors; the market levels of interest rates, and the volumes of earning assets or interest bearing liabilities. The management of the net interest margin is accomplished by our Asset Liability Management Committee. Short term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors beyond our control and are effectively set and managed by the Federal 12 Table of Contents Reserve, while longer term rates are generally determined by the market based on investors’ inflationary expectations. Thus, changes in monetary and or fiscal policy will affect both short term and long term interest rates which in turn will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if we do not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of our earning assets and interest bearing liabilities to changes in market interest rates. We generally attempt to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities that mature or can re-price within a one year period in order that we may maintain the maximum net interest margin; however, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and greatly influence this ability to maintain a neutral position. Generally, our earnings will be more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the difference between the volume of earning assets and interest bearing liabilities that mature or are subject to re-pricing in any period. The extent and duration of this sensitivity will depend on the cumulative difference over time, the velocity and direction of interest rate changes, and whether we are more asset sensitive or liability sensitive. Additionally, the Asset Liability Management Committee may desire to move our position to more asset sensitive or more liability sensitive depending upon their expectation of the direction and velocity of future changes in interest rates in an effort to maximize the net interest margin. Should we not be successful in maintaining the desired position, or should interest rates not move as anticipated, our net interest margin may be negatively impacted. Significant market declines and/or the absence of normal orderly purchases and sales may adversely affect the “market” valuations of our investment portfolio securities. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. We could be subject to further significant and material depreciation of our investment portfolio securities if we utilize only previous market sales prices in a disorderly or nonfunctioning market, where the only transactions have been distressed or forced sales. We will rely on alternative valuation methods in accordance with guidance from the FASB and other regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission. This market valuation process could significantly reduce our capital and/or profitability. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our future success is dependent on our ability to effectively compete in the face of substantial competition from other financial institutions in our primary markets. We encounter significant competition for deposits, loans and other financial services from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, and credit unions in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, larger lending limits, more extensive branch systems, and may offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations any of which may offer more favorable financing rates and terms than us. Most of these non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors may have advantages in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our continued success is largely dependent on key management team members. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. Future growth is expected to be driven by a large part in the relationships maintained with customers. While we have assembled an experienced and talented senior management team, maintaining this team, while at the same time developing other managers in order that management succession can be achieved, is not assured. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and may result in lower revenues or reduced earnings. Our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could adversely impact earnings as well as our overall financial condition. A key aspect of our long-term business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. However, we expect to curtail asset growth and focus on improving our profitability until our capital levels are restored to acceptable levels. It is uncertain when, or if, we will be able to successfully increase our capital levels and resume our long-term growth strategy. Even if we are able to restore our capital levels, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategic plans and manage its growth if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities for expansion in the future. Successful management of increased growth is contingent upon whether we can maintain appropriate levels of capital to support our growth, maintain control over growth in expenses, maintain adequate asset quality, and successfully integrate into the organization, any businesses acquired. In the event that we do open new branches or acquire existing branches or banks, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of branch franchise expansion, we must absorb these higher expenses as we begin to generate new deposits. There is a further time lag involved in redeploying the new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, we may not be able to implement our long-term growth strategy, and our plans to branch could depress earnings in the short run, even if we are able to efficiently execute our branching strategy. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting, disclosure, and reporting standards set by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation and presentation of the our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. Significant changes in legislation and or regulations could adversely impact us. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and legislation by both state and federal banking authorities. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect depositors, the public, or the insurance funds maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, not shareholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth, and changes in regulations could adversely affect it. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations may place banks in at competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other financial services companies. Although our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we suspended payment of dividends during 2010. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole opportunity for gains on your investment for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital, and by contractual restrictions under the agreement with the U.S. Treasury in connection with the issuance of our Series A Preferred Stock under the TARP 14 Table of Contents Capital Purchase Program. The ability of our banking subsidiary to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to our banking subsidiary. If we do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we are unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. In the first quarter of 2010, we suspended payment of dividends on our common stock. In addition, we are subject to regulatory restrictions that do not permit us to declare or pay any dividend without the prior written approval of our banking regulators. Although we can seek to obtain a waiver of this prohibition, banking regulators may choose not to grant such a waiver, and we would not expect to be granted a waiver or be released from this obligation until our financial performance improves significantly. Therefore, we may not be able to resume payments of dividends in the future. Government measures to regulate the financial industry, including the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, subject us to increased regulation and could adversely affect us. As a financial institution, we are heavily regulated at the state and federal levels. As a result of the financial crisis and related global economic downturn that began in 2007, we have faced, and expect to continue to face, increased public and legislative scrutiny as well as stricter and more comprehensive regulation of our financial services practices. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act includes significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape and will impact all financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have begun to be or will be implemented over the next several months and years and will be subject both to further rulemaking and the discretion of applicable regulatory bodies. Because the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on future regulatory rulemaking and interpretation, we cannot predict the full effect of this legislation on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations implemented thereunder could limit debit card interchange fees, increase FDIC assessments, impose new requirements on mortgage lending, and establish more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies. As a result of these and other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, we could experience additional costs, as well as limitations on the products and services we offer and on our ability to efficiently pursue business opportunities, which may adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 