Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Cerner Corporation We may be subject to product-related liabilities. Many of our software solutions provide data for use by healthcare providers in providing care to patients. Although no such claims have been brought against us to date regarding injuries related to the use of our software solutions, such claims may be made in the future. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover a particular claim that may be brought in the future, prove to be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful claim brought against us, which is uninsured or under-insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to claims for system errors and warranties. Our systems, particularly the Cerner Millennium versions, are very complex. As with complex systems offered by others, our systems may contain errors, especially when first introduced. Although we conduct extensive testing, we have discovered software errors in our software solutions after their introduction. Our systems are intended for use in collecting and displaying clinical information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Therefore, users of our software solutions have a greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software products generally. Our agreements with clients typically provide warranties against material errors and other matters. Failure of a client’s system to meet these criteria could constitute a material breach under such contracts allowing the client to terminate the contract and obtain a refund and/or damages, or could require us to incur additional expense in order to make the system meet these criteria. Our client contracts generally limit our liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be 8 Table of Contents enforceable in certain jurisdictions or circumstances. A successful claim brought against us, which is uninsured or under-insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We perform data center and/or hosting services for certain clients, including the storage of critical patient and administrative data. In addition, we provide support services to our clients through various client support facilities. We have redundancies, such as multiple backup generators and redundant telecommunications lines, built into our operations to prevent disruptions. However, complete failure of all generators or impairment of all telecommunications lines or severe casualty damage to the building or equipment inside the buildings housing our data centers or client support facilities could cause a disruption in operations and negatively impact clients who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers and/or client support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, cause potential liability to our clients, and increase insurance and other operating costs. Our proprietary technology may be subjected to infringement claims or may be infringed upon. We rely upon a combination of license agreements, confidentiality procedures, employee nondisclosure agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties and technical measures to maintain the confidentiality and trade secrecy of our proprietary information. We also rely on trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We have initiated a patent program but currently have a limited patent portfolio. As a result, we may not be able to adequately protect against copying, reverse-engineering or unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property. In addition, we could be subject to additional intellectual property infringement claims as the number of competitors and patents in the healthcare information technology market grows and the functionality of our software solutions and services expands. These claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, and to develop noninfringing technology, obtain a license and/or cease selling the software solutions and services that contain or rely upon the infringing intellectual property. We are subject to risks associated with our global operations. We market, sell and service our software solutions globally. We have established offices around the world, including in the Americas, Europe, in the Middle East and in the Asia Pacific region. We will continue to expand our global operations and enter new global markets. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to develop successful direct and indirect global sales and support channels. Our business is generally transacted in the local functional currency. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. There is a risk that we may sometimes choose the wrong partner. For these reasons, we may not be able to maintain or increase global market demand for our software solutions. Global operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include, but are not limited to: • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods • Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing global operations • The impact of global economic conditions • Certification or regulatory requirements • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements • Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries • Potentially adverse tax consequences • Different or additional functionality requirements • Trade protection measures • Service provider and government spending patterns • Natural disasters, war or terrorist acts • Poor selection of a partner in a country 9 Table of Contents • Political conditions which may impact sales or threaten the safety of associates or our continued presence in these countries Our success depends upon the recruitment and retention of key personnel. To remain competitive in the healthcare information technology industry, we must attract, motivate and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel, including executives, consultants, programmers and systems architects skilled in the healthcare information technology industry and the technical environments in which our solutions operate. Competition for such personnel in this industry is intense. Our failure to attract additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key management, sales, marketing, consulting and technical personnel. We have succession plans in place; however, the unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact to our business and results of operations, and could potentially inhibit solution development and market share advances. We significantly rely on third party suppliers. We license or purchase intellectual property and technology (such as software, hardware and content) from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate it into or sell it in conjunction with our software solutions and services, some of which is critical to the operation of our solutions. If any of the third party suppliers were to change product offerings, increase prices or terminate our licenses or supply contracts, we might need to seek alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our solutions. Such alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual property or technology provided by our existing suppliers. If the cost of licensing, purchasing or maintaining these third party intellectual property or technology solutions significantly increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease. In addition, interruption in functionality of our solutions could adversely affect future sales of solutions and services. We intend to continue strategic business acquisitions which are subject to inherent risks. In order to expand our solutions and services and grow our market and client base, we may continue to seek and complete strategic business acquisitions that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to: 1) failure to successfully integrate the operations, services, solutions or personnel of the acquired business; 2) diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 3) entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; 4) failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets; 5) loss of clients or key personnel of the acquired business; 6) incurrence of debt and/or assumption of known and unknown liabilities; 7) write-off of software development costs and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets; and, 8) dilutive issuances of equity securities. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. Risks Related to the Healthcare Information Technology Industry The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. For example, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-32) contained significant changes to Medicare and Medicaid and had an impact for several years on healthcare providers’ ability to invest in capital intensive systems. In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is having a direct impact on the healthcare industry by requiring identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the protection of patient health information. These regulatory factors affect the purchasing practices and operation of healthcare organizations. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level and to change healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. These programs may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Healthcare industry participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions, including investments in our software solutions and services. 10 Table of Contents Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our software solutions and services. As the healthcare industry consolidates, our client base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of acquiring each client becomes greater. The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the local, state and federal level. We are subject to a significant and wide-ranging number of regulations both within the United States and elsewhere, such as regulations in the areas of: healthcare fraud, e-prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices and the security and privacy of patient data. Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to strengthen their positions and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Healthcare providers who are our clients are subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. The effect of this government regulation on our clients is difficult to predict. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with any applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to our clients and that may be applicable to us, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our clients to make changes in their operations or the way that they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to sanctions or liability, including exclusion from government health programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. E-Prescribing. The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by state and federal law. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. In addition, in November 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services announced regulations by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) related to “E-Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program” (“E-Prescribing Regulations”). These E-Prescribing Regulations were mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”). The E-Prescribing Regulations set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. The final regulations adopted two standards effective January 2006. A second and final set of required standards are to be published no later than April 1, 2008 and implemented no later than April 1, 2009. These standards are detailed and significant, and cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. Our efforts to provide that our solutions enable our clients to comply with these regulations could be time-consuming and expensive. Claims Transmissions. Certain of our solutions assist our clients in submitting claims to payers, which claims are governed by federal and state laws. Our solutions are capable of electronically transmitting claims for services and items rendered by a physician to many patients’ payers for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides civil liability to any person that knowingly submits a claim to a payer, including, for example, Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans, seeking payment for any services or items that have not been provided to the patient. Federal law may also impose criminal penalties for intentionally submitting such false claims. We have policies and procedures in place that we believe result in the accurate and complete transmission of claims, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete. The HIPAA security, privacy and transaction standards, as discussed below, will also have a potentially significant effect on our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our clients’ HIPAA compliance obligations. Regulation of Medical Devices. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) has declared that certain of our solutions are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“Act”) and amendments to the Act. As a consequence, we are subject to 11 Table of Contents extensive regulation by the FDA with regard to those solutions that are actively regulated. Other countries have similar regulations in place related to medical devices, that now or may in the future apply to certain of our solutions. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing requirements including pre-market notification clearance prior to marketing. Complying with these medical device regulations on a global perspective is time consuming and expensive. Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating software that is used in healthcare. There have been seven FDA inspections since 1998 at various Cerner sites. Inspections conducted at our world headquarters in 1999 and our Houston facility in 2002 each resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 that we responded to promptly. The FDA has taken no further action with respect to either of the Form 483s that were issued in 1999 and 2002. The remaining five FDA inspections, including an inspection at our world headquarters in 2004, resulted in no issuance of a Form 483. We remain subject to periodic FDA inspections and we could be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our solutions. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and/or criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Security and Privacy of Patient Information. State and federal laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security measures. Regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) requires national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include healthcare organizations such as our clients, were required to comply with the privacy standards by April 2003, the transaction regulations by October 2003 and the security regulations by April 2005. As a business associate of the covered entities, we, in most instances, must also ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as it pertains to our clients. The effect of HIPAA on our business is difficult to predict, and there can be no assurances that we will adequately address the business risks created by HIPAA and its implementation, or that we will be able to take advantage of any resulting business opportunities. Furthermore, we are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA, or the regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA, might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the costs of compliance with HIPAA. Evolving HIPAA-related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, research and development and other resources to modify our solutions to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. We operate in an intensely competitive and dynamic industry, and our ability to successfully compete and continue to grow our business depends on our ability to respond quickly to market changes and changing technologies and to bring competitive new solutions, features and services to market in a timely fashion. The market for healthcare information systems is intensely competitive, dynamically evolving and subject to rapid technological change. Development of new proprietary technology or services is complex, entails significant time and expense and may not be successful. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to introduce new solutions or services on schedule, or at all, nor can we guarantee that, despite extensive testing, errors will not be found in our new solution releases before or after commercial release, which could result in solution redevelopment costs and loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. 12 Table of Contents We believe that the principal competitive factors in this market include the ease of implementation, the breadth and quality of system and software solution offerings, the stability of the information systems provider, the ongoing support for the system and the potential for enhancements and future compatible software solutions. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and other resources than us and some of our competitors offer software solutions that we do not offer. Our principal existing competitors include: Eclipsys Corporation, Epic Systems Corporation, GE Healthcare Technologies, iSoft Corporation, McKesson Corporation, Medical Information Technology, Inc. (“Meditech”), Misys Healthcare Systems and Siemens Medical Solutions Health Services Corporation, each of which offers a suite of software solutions that compete with many of our software solutions and services. There are other competitors that offer a more limited number of competing software solutions and services, including, without limitation: Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Emdeon Corporation and Quality Systems, Inc. In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, Internet-based start-up companies and others specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive software/solutions or services. The pace of change in the healthcare information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new software solution introductions, software solution enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. As a result, our success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with technological change and to introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new and enhanced software solutions and services that satisfy changing client requirements and achieve market acceptance. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock Our quarterly operating results may vary which could adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary in future periods, including, variations from guidance, expectations or historical results or trends. Quarterly operating results may vary for a number of reasons including accounting policy changes, demand for our solutions and services, our long sales cycle, potentially long installation and implementation cycles for larger, more complex and higher-priced systems and other factors described in this section and elsewhere in this report. As a result of healthcare industry trends and the market for our Cerner Millennium solutions, a large percentage of our revenues are generated by the sale and installation of larger, more complex and higher-priced systems. The sales process for these systems is lengthy and involves a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources by the client. Sales may be subject to delays due to changes in clients’ internal budgets, procedures for approving large capital expenditures, competing needs for other capital expenditures, availability of personnel resources and by actions taken by competitors. Delays in the expected sale, installation or implementation of these large systems may have a significant impact on our anticipated quarterly revenues and consequently our earnings, since a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed. We recognize revenue upon the completion of standard milestone conditions and the amount of revenue recognized in any quarter depends upon our and our client’s ability to meet project milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the contract could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter. Our revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of clients’ year-end efforts to make all final capital expenditures for the then-current year. Our sales forecasts may vary from actual sales in a particular quarter. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales associates monitor the status of all sales opportunities, such as the date when they estimate that a client will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. We compare this pipeline at various points in time to evaluate trends in our business. This analysis provides guidance in business planning and forecasting, but these pipeline estimates are by their nature speculative. Our pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, partially because of changes 13 Table of Contents in the pipeline and in conversion rates of the pipeline into contracts that can be very difficult to estimate. A negative variation in the expected conversion rate or timing of the pipeline into contracts, or in the pipeline itself, could cause our plan or forecast to be inaccurate and thereby adversely affect business results. For example, a slowdown in information technology spending, adverse economic conditions or a variety of other factors can cause purchasing decisions to be delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled, which would reduce the overall pipeline conversion rate in a particular period of time. Because a substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough in response to a revenue shortfall resulting from a decrease in our pipeline conversion rate in any given fiscal quarter(s). The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market for our common stock may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results, rumors about our performance or solutions, changes in expectations of future financial performance or estimates of securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, healthcare reform measures, client relationship developments, changes occurring in the securities markets in general and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. As a matter of policy, we do not generally comment on our stock price or rumors. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and information technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Our Directors have authority to issue preferred stock and our corporate governance documents contain anti-takeover provisions. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. This includes, but is not limited to, provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit shareholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings. We have also entered into a Rights Agreement which could discourage or prevent a third party from pursuing a takeover proposal that is not supported by our Board of Directors. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. 