Item 1A. Risk Factors In this Item 1A, references to "we", "us" and "our" mean Buckeye Partners, L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Risks Inherent in our Business Changes in petroleum demand and distribution may adversely affect our business. In addition, the current economic downturn could result in lower demand for a sustained period of time. Demand for the services provided by our Operating Subsidiaries depends upon the demand for refined petroleum products in the regions served. Prevailing economic conditions, price and weather affect the demand for refined petroleum products. Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by our pipelines also affect the demand for refined petroleum products because a substantial portion of the refined petroleum products transported by our pipelines and throughput at our terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft. If these factors result in a decline in demand for refined petroleum products, the business of our Operating Subsidiaries would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because they operate without the benefit of either exclusive franchises from government entities or long-term contracts. In addition, in December 2007, Congress enacted the "Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007," which, among other provisions, mandated annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. These statutory mandates may have the impact over time of reducing the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly with respect to gasoline. The increased production and use of biofuels may also create opportunities for additional pipeline transportation and additional blending opportunities within the terminals division, although that potential cannot be quantified at present. Other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. 25 Table of Contents Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict or control the effect of these factors on us or our Operating Subsidiaries. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services. Our operating results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions with certain regions, including the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the entire United States. If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the United States, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition could adversely affect our operating results. Generally, pipelines are the lowest cost method for long-haul overland movement of refined petroleum products. Therefore, our most significant competitors for large volume shipments are other existing pipelines, some of which are owned or controlled by major integrated oil companies. In addition, new pipelines (including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems) could be built to effectively compete with us in particular locations. For example, Buckeye is aware of a proposed pipeline system in the Rocky Mountain region that would compete directly with Buckeye NGL's pipeline transportation services. This competition could ultimately reduce the volumes of natural gas liquids that are transported by Buckeye NGL if the proposed pipeline system becomes operational. We compete with marine transportation in some areas. Tankers and barges on the Great Lakes account for some of the volume to certain Michigan, Ohio and upstate New York locations during the approximately eight non-winter months of the year. Barges are presently a competitive factor for deliveries to the New York City area, the Pittsburgh area, Connecticut and locations on the Ohio River such as Mt. Vernon, Indiana and Cincinnati, Ohio, and locations on the Mississippi River such as St. Louis, Missouri. Trucks competitively deliver refined petroleum products in a number of areas that we serve. While their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas that we serve. The availability of truck transportation places a significant competitive constraint on our ability to increase our Operating Subsidiaries' tariff rates. Privately arranged exchanges of refined products between marketers in different locations are another form of competition. Generally, these exchanges reduce both parties' costs by eliminating or reducing transportation charges. In addition, consolidation among refiners and marketers that has accelerated in recent years has altered distribution patterns, reducing demand for transportation services in some markets and increasing them in other markets. Additionally, our Lodi Gas facility competes primarily with other storage facilities in the storage of natural gas. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and access to greater supplies of natural gas than our Lodi Gas facility does. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas stored by us and could adversely affect our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. Finally, our Energy Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities, and must compete with the major integrated oil companies, their marketing affiliates, and independent brokers and marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and 26 Table of Contents experience. Some of these companies have superior access to capital resources, which could affect our ability to effectively compete with them. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines and stored in our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of ours. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions. We are a holding company and depend entirely on our Operating Subsidiaries' distributions to service our debt obligations and pay cash distributions to our Unitholders. We are a holding company with no material operations. If we do not receive cash distributions from our Operating Subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations or to make cash distributions to our Unitholders. Among other things, this would adversely affect the market price of our limited partner units. We are currently bound by the terms of a revolving credit facility which prohibits us from making distributions to our Unitholders if a default under the credit facility exists at the time of the distribution or would result from the distribution. Our Operating Subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions which could further limit each Operating Subsidiary's ability to make distributions to us. We may incur liabilities from assets we have acquired. Some of the assets we have acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products. Releases from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way may have occurred prior to our acquisition. In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. If a significant release or event occurred in the past, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. A decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products we transport. A decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products we transport on certain of the pipelines owned by Wood River. As a result, our revenues and, therefore, our ability to pay cash distributions on our units could be adversely affected. The ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors such as unscheduled maintenance, catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers; or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations. 27 Table of Contents Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of our being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Debt securities we issue are, and will continue to be, junior to claims of our Operating Subsidiaries' creditors. Our outstanding debt securities are structurally subordinated to the claims of our Operating Subsidiaries' creditors. In addition, any debt securities we issue in the future will likewise be subordinated in the same manner. Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our Operating Subsidiaries. Our claim to the assets of our Operating Subsidiaries derives from our own ownership interests in those Operating Subsidiaries. Claims of our Operating Subsidiaries' creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of our Operating Subsidiaries over our own ownership interests and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including our debt securities. Our Operating Subsidiaries' rate structures are subject to regulation and change by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Buckeye Pipe Line, Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and NORCO are interstate common carriers regulated by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act and the Department of Energy Organization Act. The FERC's primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. In the alternative, a pipeline is allowed to charge market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market. The indexing methodology is used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and NORCO. The indexing method presently allows a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the annual producer price index ("PPI") for finished goods plus 1.3%. If the change in PPI +1.3% were to be negative, we could be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and NORCO if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the PPI might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus hampering our ability to recover our costs. Shippers may also file complaints against indexed rates as being unjust and unreasonable, subject to the FERC's standards. Buckeye Pipe Line presently is authorized to charge rates set by market forces, subject to limitations, rather than by reference to costs historically incurred by the pipeline, in 15 regions and metropolitan areas. The Buckeye Pipe Line program is an exception to the generic oil pipeline regulations the FERC issued under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The generic rules rely primarily on the index methodology described above. 28 Table of Contents The Buckeye Pipe Line rate program was reevaluated by the FERC in July 2000, and was allowed to continue with no material changes. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that a change in the FERC's method of regulating Buckeye Pipe Line would have on our operations, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our Operating Subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in the Operating Subsidiaries' operations, and we cannot assure you that the Operating Subsidiaries will not incur material environmental liabilities. Additionally, our costs could increase significantly and we could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments: •environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or •claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from the operations of the Operating Subsidiaries are filed. Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of refined petroleum products may necessitate changes to our pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes. For instance, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees we may receive at our terminals. Department of Transportation regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. The Operating Subsidiaries' pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity testing to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas, or commercially navigable waterways. In response to these regulations, the Operating Subsidiaries conduct pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis. Depending on the results of these integrity tests, the Operating Subsidiaries could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. Our business is exposed to customer credit risk, against which we may not be able to fully protect. Our businesses are subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers. We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use letters of credit, prepayments and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our customers, counterparties and suppliers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. In addition, volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. 29 Table of Contents The marketing business in our Energy Services segment enters into sales contracts pursuant to which customers agree to buy refined petroleum products from us at a fixed-price on a future date. Given the recent drop in refined petroleum product prices, certain of our fixed-price sales contract customers have obligations to purchase refined petroleum products from us at prices that are above current market prices. If our customers have not hedged their exposure to reductions in refined petroleum product prices, then they could have a significant loss upon settlement of their fixed-price sales contracts with us, which could increase the risk of their nonpayment or nonperformance. In addition, we generally have entered into futures contracts to hedge our exposure under these fixed-price sales contracts to increases in refined petroleum product prices. If current price levels remain lower than when we entered into these futures contracts, then we will be required to make payments upon the settlement thereof. Ordinarily, this settlement payment would be offset by the payment received from the customer pursuant to the associated fixed-price sales contract. We will, however, be required to make the settlement payment under the futures contract even if a fixed-price sales contract customer does not perform. Nonperformance under fixed-price sales contracts by a significant number of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks could adversely affect our business. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries or terminals, could have a material adverse effect on our business. During 2007, the Department of Homeland Security promulgated the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards ("CFATS") to regulate the security of facilities considered to have "high risk" chemicals. Buckeye has submitted to the Department of Homeland Security certain required information concerning its facilities in compliance with CFATS and, as a result, several of Buckeye's facilities have been determined to be initially tiered as "high risk" by the Department of Homeland Security. Due to this determination, Buckeye is required to prepare a security vulnerability assessment and possibly develop and implement site security plans required by CFATS. At this time, Buckeye does not believe that compliance with CFATS will have a material effect on its business. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be insured. Our Operating Subsidiaries' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. Our Operating Subsidiaries' operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers' compensation and environmental insurance policies. In the future, however, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, thereby reducing our ability to make distributions to Unitholders, or payments to debt holders. 30 Table of Contents We may not realize the expected benefits from the acquisitions of Lodi Gas and Farm & Home. Our estimates regarding earnings, operating cash flow and capital expenditures resulting from the Lodi Gas or Farm & Home acquisitions may prove to be incorrect. Additionally, we may encounter difficulties in the assimilation of the new businesses, we may experience unanticipated inefficiencies or costs, and we may lose customers or key employees. In addition, both the gas storage business of Lodi Gas and the marketing business of Farm & Home expand our operations and the types of businesses in which we engage, posing additional challenges in the integration of these new businesses. Our natural gas storage business depends on third party pipelines to transport natural gas. We depend on Pacific Gas and Electric's intrastate gas pipelines to move our customers' natural gas to and from our Lodi Gas facility. Any interruption of service or decline in utilization on the pipelines or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service for the pipelines could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to transport natural gas to and from the Lodi Gas facility, and could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities could affect the utilization and value of our storage services. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas could have a significant financial impact on us. Our profitability is materially affected by the volume of natural gas stored by us. A material change in the supply or demand of natural gas could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to the Lodi Gas facility for storage, thereby reducing our revenues and operating income. Our results could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of refined petroleum products and the value of natural gas storage services. In addition, our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity risk and any noncompliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. The Energy Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities. The Natural Gas Storage segment stores natural gas for, and loans natural gas to, its customers for fixed periods of time. If the values of refined petroleum products or natural gas storage services change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from these activities. Furthermore, when prices increase rapidly and dramatically, we may be unable to promptly pass our additional costs to our customers, resulting in lower margins for us which could adversely affect our results of operations. Although the Natural Gas Storage segment does not purchase or sell natural gas, the value of natural gas storage services generally changes based on changes in the relative prices of natural gas over different delivery periods. Our Energy Services segment follows risk management practices that are designed to minimize its commodity risk and the Natural Gas Storage segment has adopted risk management policies that are designed to manage the risks associated with its storage business. These practices and policies cannot, however, eliminate all price and price-related risks. With respect to our Energy Services segment, it is our practice to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between commodity purchases, on the one hand, and expected commodity sales or future delivery obligations, on the other hand. Through these transactions, we seek to establish a margin for the commodity purchased by selling the same commodity for physical delivery to third party users, such as wholesalers or retailers. While our hedging policies are designed to minimize commodity risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply could expose us to risk of loss resulting from price changes if we are required to obtain alternative supplies to cover these sales transactions. In addition, we are also exposed to basis risks in our hedging activities that arise when a commodity, such 31 Table of Contents as ultra low sulfur diesel, is purchased at one pricing index but must be hedged against another commodity type, such as heating oil, because of limitations in the markets for derivative products. We are also susceptible to basis risk created when we hedge a commodity based on prices at a certain location, such as the New York Harbor, and enter into a sale or exchange of that commodity at another location, such as Macungie, Pennsylvania, where prices and price changes might differ from the prices and price changes at the location upon which the hedging instrument is based. Both our natural gas storage and petroleum product marketing activities also involve the risk of non-compliance with our risk management practices and policies. We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of these practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. Risks Relating to Partnership Structure Our partnership status may be a disadvantage to us in calculating cost of service for rate-making purposes. In the past, the FERC ruled that pass-through entities, like us, may not claim an income tax allowance for income attributable to non-corporate limited partners in justifying the reasonableness of their rates that are based on their cost of service. Further, in a July 2004 decision involving an unrelated pipeline limited partnership, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit overruled a prior FERC decision allowing a limited partnership to claim a partial income tax allowance. On May 4, 2005, the FERC adopted a new policy providing that all entities owning public utility assets—oil and gas pipelines and electric utilities—would be permitted to include an income tax allowance in their cost-of-service rates to reflect the actual or potential income tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. FERC determined that any pass-through entity seeking an income tax allowance in a rate proceeding must establish that its partners have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity's public utility income. The amount of any income tax allowance will be reduced accordingly to the extent that any of the partners do not have an actual or potential income tax obligation. This reduction will be reflected in the weighted income tax liability of the entity's partners. Whether a pipeline's ultimate owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although this new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. This policy was applied by FERC in June 2005 with an order involving an unrelated pipeline limited partnership ("2005 Policy Statement"). FERC concluded that the pipeline should be afforded an income tax allowance on all of its partnership interests to the extent that the owners of those interests had an actual or potential income tax obligation during the periods at issue. In December 2005, FERC reaffirmed its new income tax allowance policy as it applied to that pipeline. On May 29, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision affirming FERC's 2005 Policy Statement, and on August 20, 2007, denied requests for rehearing. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued an order on remand reaffirming and clarifying its 2005 Policy Statement. In orders concurrently issued, FERC further found that complaints against oil pipeline rates challenging its income tax policy, as clarified, would not be considered. A shipper or FERC could cite these decisions in a protest or complaint challenging indexed rates maintained by certain of our Operating Subsidiaries. Whether a pipeline's ultimate owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. If a challenge were brought and FERC were to find that some of the indexed rates exceed levels justified by the cost of service, FERC could order a reduction in the indexed rates and could require reparations. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents We may sell additional limited partner units, diluting existing interests of Unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue additional limited partner units and certain other equity securities without Unitholder approval. There is no limit on the total number of limited partner units and other equity securities we may issue. When we issue additional limited partner units or other equity securities, the proportionate partnership interest of our existing Unitholders will decrease. The issuance could negatively affect the amount of cash distributed to Unitholders and the market price of the limited partner units. Issuance of additional units will also diminish the relative voting strength of the previously outstanding units. Our general partner and its affiliates may have conflicts with Buckeye. The directors and officers of our general partner and its affiliates have fiduciary duties to manage the general partner in a manner that is beneficial to its sole member, BGH. At the same time, the general partner has fiduciary duties to manage Buckeye in a manner that is beneficial to our partners. Therefore, the general partner's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its sole member. Such conflicts may arise from, among others, the following factors: •decisions by our general partner regarding the amount and timing of our cash expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional limited partner units or other securities can affect the amount of incentive distribution payments we make to our general partner; •under our partnership agreement we reimburse the general partner for the costs of managing and operating Buckeye; and •under our partnership agreement, it is not a breach of our general partner's fiduciary duties for affiliates of our general partner to engage in activities that compete with us. Conflicts of interest with our general partner and its affiliates, including the foregoing factors, could exacerbate periods of lower or declining performance, or otherwise reduce our revenues and operating income. A default under BGH's Credit Facility could result in a change of control of our general partner which would be an event of default under our revolving credit facility. BGH is a party to a $10.0 million credit agreement with SunTrust Bank, pursuant to which it has pledged its ownership interest in our general partner as collateral security for its obligations under this agreement. If BGH were to default on its obligations under its credit agreement, its lender could exercise its rights under this pledge which could result in a change of control of our general partner and a change of control of us. A change of control would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility and require the administrative agent, upon request of the lenders providing a majority of the loan commitments or outstanding loan amounts, to declare all amounts payable by us under our revolving credit facility immediately due and payable. Unitholders have limited voting rights and control of management. Our general partner manages and controls our activities and the activities of our Operating Subsidiaries. Unitholders have no right to elect the general partner or the directors of the general partner on an annual or other ongoing basis. However, if the general partner resigns or is removed, its successor must be elected by holders of a majority of the limited partner units. Unitholders may remove the general partner only by a vote of the holders of at least 80% of the limited partner units and only after receiving certain state regulatory approvals required for the transfer of control of a public utility. As a result, Unitholders will have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to gain control of us or influence our actions. 33 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner. Our general partner owes fiduciary duties to our Unitholders. Provisions of our partnership agreement and partnership agreements for each of our operating partnerships, however, contain language limiting the liability of the general partner to the Unitholders for actions or omissions taken in good faith which do not involve gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, these partnership agreements grant broad rights of indemnification to the general partner and its directors, officers, employees and affiliates. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partnership interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were determined that we had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the Unitholders as a group took any action pursuant to our partnership agreement that constituted participation in the "control" of our business, then the Unitholders could be held liable under some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a Unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of distributions paid to the Unitholder for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Tax Risks to Unitholders Unitholders are urged to read the section above entitled "Tax Considerations for Unitholders" for a more complete discussion of the expected material federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of limited partner units. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in LP Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to Unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to Unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation 34 Table of Contents would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to holders of our LP Units, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our LP Units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. Although such legislation would not apply to us as currently proposed, it could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our LP Units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our LP Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or certain other matters affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our LP Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our Unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our Unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our LP Units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your LP Units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those LP Units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your LP Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the LP Units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such LP Units at a price greater than your tax basis in those LP Units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion and depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a Unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your LP Units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. 35 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our LP Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our LP Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our LP Units. We treat each purchaser of LP Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual LP Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the LP Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of LP Units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of LP Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our LP Units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing U.S. Treasury regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. A Unitholder whose LP Units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of LP Units may be considered as having disposed of those LP Units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a Unitholder whose LP Units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the Unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the Unitholder and any cash distributions received by the Unitholder as to those LP Units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their LP Units. 36 Table of Contents We will adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the Unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the LP Units. When we issue additional LP Units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our Unitholders and Buckeye GP. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain Unitholders and Buckeye GP, which may be unfavorable to such Unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of LP Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between Buckeye GP and certain of our Unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our Unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our Unitholders' sale of LP Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the LP Units or result in audit adjustments to our Unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our Unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a Unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. As a result of investing in our LP Units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in a number of states in the United States. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations, and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all foreign, federal, state, and local tax returns. 37 Table of Contents We have a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through a subsidiary that is a corporation for federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. The corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our Unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution would be further reduced. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 