Item 1A. Risk Factors In this Item 1A, references to "we", "us" and "our" mean Buckeye Partners, L.P. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Risks Inherent in our Business Changes in petroleum demand and distribution may adversely affect our business. Demand for the services provided by our Operating Subsidiaries depends upon the demand for refined petroleum products in the regions served. Prevailing economic conditions, price and weather affect the demand for refined petroleum products. Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by our pipelines also affect the demand for refined petroleum products because a substantial portion of the refined petroleum products transported by our pipelines and throughput at our terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft. If these factors result in a decline in demand for refined petroleum products, the business of our Operating Subsidiaries would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because they operate without the benefit of either exclusive franchises from government entities or long-term contracts. In addition, in December 2007, Congress enacted the "Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007," which, among other provisions, mandated annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. These statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. The increased production and use of biofuels may also create opportunities for additional pipeline transportation and additional blending opportunities within the terminals division, although that potential cannot be quantified at present. Other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict or control the effect of these factors on us or our Operating Subsidiaries. Competition could adversely affect our operating results. Generally, pipelines are the lowest cost method for long-haul overland movement of refined petroleum products. Therefore, our most significant competitors for large volume shipments are other existing pipelines, some of which are owned or controlled by major integrated oil companies. In addition, new pipelines (including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems) could be built to effectively compete with us in particular locations. 23 We compete with marine transportation in some areas. Tankers and barges on the Great Lakes account for some of the volume to certain Michigan, Ohio and upstate New York locations during the approximately eight non-winter months of the year. Barges are presently a competitive factor for deliveries to the New York City area, the Pittsburgh area, Connecticut and locations on the Ohio River such as Mt. Vernon, Indiana and Cincinnati, Ohio, and locations on the Mississippi River such as St. Louis, Missouri. Trucks competitively deliver refined petroleum products in a number of areas that we serve. While their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas that we serve. The availability of truck transportation places a significant competitive constraint on our ability to increase our Operating Subsidiaries' tariff rates. Privately arranged exchanges of refined products between marketers in different locations are another form of competition. Generally, these exchanges reduce both parties' costs by eliminating or reducing transportation charges. In addition, consolidation among refiners and marketers that has accelerated in recent years has altered distribution patterns, reducing demand for transportation services in some markets and increasing them in other markets. Additionally, our Lodi facility competes primarily with other storage facilities in the storage of natural gas. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and access to greater supplies of natural gas than our Lodi facility does. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas stored by us and could adversely affect our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. Finally, Farm & Home buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities, and must compete with the major integrated oil companies, their marketing affiliates, and independent brokers and marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Some of these companies have superior access to capital resources, which could affect our ability to effectively compete with them. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines and stored in our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of ours. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions. We are a holding company and depend entirely on our Operating Subsidiaries' distributions to service our debt obligations and pay cash distributions to our Unitholders. We are a holding company with no material operations. If we do not receive cash distributions from our Operating Subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations or to make cash distributions to our Unitholders. Among other things, this would adversely affect the market price of our limited partner units. We are currently bound by the terms of a revolving credit facility which prohibits us from making distributions to our Unitholders if a default under the credit facility exists at the time of the distribution or would result from the distribution. Our Operating Subsidiaries may from 24 time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions which could further limit each Operating Subsidiary's ability to make distributions to us. We may incur liabilities from assets we have acquired. Some of the assets we have acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products. Releases from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way may have occurred prior to our acquisition. In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. If a significant release or event occurred in the past and we are unable to recover from the seller, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. A decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products we transport. A decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products we transport on certain of the pipelines owned by Wood River. As a result, our revenues and, therefore, our ability to pay cash distributions on our units could be adversely affected. The ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors such as unscheduled maintenance, catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers; or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of our being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Debt securities we issue are, and will continue to be, junior to claims of our Operating Subsidiaries' creditors. Our outstanding debt securities are structurally subordinated to the claims of our Operating Subsidiaries' creditors. In addition, any debt securities we issue in the future will likewise be subordinated in the same manner. Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our Operating Subsidiaries. Our claim to the assets of our Operating Subsidiaries derives from our own ownership interests in those Operating Subsidiaries. Claims of our Operating Subsidiaries' creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of our Operating Subsidiaries over our own ownership interests and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including our debt securities. Our Operating Subsidiaries' rate structures are subject to regulation and change by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Buckeye Pipe Line, Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and Norco are interstate common carriers regulated by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act and the Department of Energy Organization Act. The FERC's primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. In the 25 alternative, a pipeline is allowed to charge market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market. The indexing methodology is used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and Norco. The indexing method presently allows a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the annual producer price index ("PPI") for finished goods plus 1.3%. If the change in PPI +1.3% were to be negative, we could be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye NGL and Norco if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the PPI might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus hampering our ability to recover our costs. Shippers may also file complaints against indexed rates as being unjust and unreasonable, subject to the FERC's standards. Buckeye Pipe Line presently is authorized to charge rates set by market forces, subject to limitations, rather than by reference to costs historically incurred by the pipeline, in 15 regions and metropolitan areas. The Buckeye Pipe Line program is an exception to the generic oil pipeline regulations the FERC issued under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The generic rules rely primarily on the index methodology described above. The Buckeye Pipe Line rate program was reevaluated by the FERC in July 2000, and was allowed to continue with no material changes. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that a change in the FERC's method of regulating Buckeye Pipe Line would have on our operations, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our Operating Subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in the Operating Subsidiaries' operations, and we cannot assure you that the Operating Subsidiaries will not incur material environmental liabilities. Additionally, our costs could increase significantly and we could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments: •environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or •claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from the operations of the Operating Subsidiaries are filed. Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of refined petroleum products may necessitate changes to our pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes. For instance, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees we may receive at our terminals. Department of Transportation regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. The Operating Subsidiaries' pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity testing to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas, or commercially navigable waterways. In response to these regulations, the Operating Subsidiaries conduct pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis. Depending on the results of these integrity tests, the Operating Subsidiaries could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. 26 Terrorist attacks could adversely affect our business. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries or terminals, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be insured. Our Operating Subsidiaries' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. Our Operating Subsidiaries' operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers' compensation and environmental insurance policies. In the future, however, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, thereby reducing our ability to make distributions to Unitholders, or payments to debt holders. We may not realize the expected benefits from the acquisitions of Lodi Gas and Farm & Home. Our estimates regarding earnings, operating cash flow and capital expenditures resulting from the Lodi Gas or Farm & Home acquisitions may prove to be incorrect. Additionally, we may encounter difficulties in the assimilation of the new businesses, we may experience unanticipated inefficiencies or costs, and we may lose customers or key employees. In addition, both the gas storage business of Lodi Gas and the wholesale and retail distribution business of Farm & Home expand our operations and the types of businesses in which we engage, posing additional challenges in the integration of these new businesses. Our natural gas storage business depends on third party pipelines to transport natural gas. We depend on Pacific Gas and Electric's intrastate gas pipelines to move our customers' natural gas to and from our Lodi facility. Any interruption of service or decline in utilization on the pipelines or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service for the pipelines could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to transport natural gas to and from the Lodi facility, and could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities could affect the utilization and value of our storage services. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas could have a significant financial impact on us. Our profitability is materially affected by the volume of natural gas stored by us. A material change in the supply or demand of natural gas could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to the Lodi facility for storage, thereby reducing our revenues and operating income. Our results could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of refined petroleum products and the value of natural gas storage services. Farm & Home buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities. Lodi Gas stores natural gas for, and loans natural gas to, its customers for fixed periods of 27 time. If the values of refined petroleum products or natural gas storage services change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from these activities. Although Lodi Gas does not purchase or sell natural gas, the value of natural gas storage services generally changes based on changes in the relative prices of natural gas over different delivery periods. Farm & Home follows risk management practices that are designed to minimize its commodity risk and Lodi Gas has adopted risk management policies that are designed to manage the risks associated with its storage business. These practices and policies cannot, however, eliminate all price and price-related risks. With respect to Farm & Home, it is our practice to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between commodity purchases, on the one hand, and expected commodity sales or future delivery obligations, on the other hand. Through these transactions, we seek to establish a margin for the commodity purchased by selling the same commodity for physical delivery to third party users, such as wholesalers or retailers. This practice cannot, however, eliminate all price risks. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply could expose us to risk of loss resulting from price changes if we are required to obtain alternative supplies to cover these sales transactions. In addition, we are also exposed to basis risks in our hedging activities that arise when a commodity, such as ultra low sulfur diesel, is purchased at one pricing index but must be hedged against another commodity type, such as heating oil, because of limitations in the markets for derivative products. We are also susceptible to basis risk created when we hedge a commodity based on prices at a certain location, such as the New York Harbor, and enter into a sale or exchange of that commodity at another location, such as Macungie, Pennsylvania, where prices and price changes might differ from the prices and price changes at the location upon which the hedging instrument is based. Both our natural gas storage and petroleum product marketing activities also involve the risk of non-compliance with our risk management practices and policies. We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of these practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. Our business is exposed to credit risk, against which we may not be able to adequately protect. Our pipeline and terminalling business to a small degree, and the marketing businesses of Farm & Home and Lodi Gas to a greater degree, are subject to the risk of nonpayment and nonperformance by customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use letters of credit, prepayments and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies do not fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Partnership Structure Our partnership status may be a disadvantage to us in calculating cost of service for rate-making purposes. In the past, the FERC ruled that pass-through entities, like us, may not claim an income tax allowance for income attributable to non-corporate limited partners in justifying the reasonableness of their rates that are based on their cost of service. Further, in a July 2004 decision involving an unrelated pipeline limited partnership, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit overruled a prior FERC decision allowing a limited partnership to claim a partial income tax allowance. On May 4, 2005, the FERC adopted a new policy providing that all entities owning public utility assets—oil and gas pipelines and electric utilities—would be permitted to include an income tax allowance in their cost-of-service rates to reflect the actual or potential income tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. FERC determined that any 28 pass-through entity seeking an income tax allowance in a rate proceeding must establish that its partners have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity's public utility income. The amount of any income tax allowance will be reduced accordingly to the extent that any of the partners do not have an actual or potential income tax obligation. This reduction will be reflected in the weighted income tax liability of the entity's partners. Whether a pipeline's ultimate owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although this new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. This policy was applied by FERC in June 2005 with an order involving an unrelated pipeline limited partnership ("2005 Policy Statement"). FERC concluded that the pipeline should be afforded an income tax allowance on all of its partnership interests to the extent that the owners of those interests had an actual or potential income tax obligation during the periods at issue. In December 2005, FERC reaffirmed its new income tax allowance policy as it applied to that pipeline. On May 29, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a decision affirming FERC's 2005 Policy Statement, and on August 20, 2007, denied requests for rehearing. On December 26, 2007, FERC issued an order on remand reaffirming and clarifying its 2005 Policy Statement. In orders concurrently issued, FERC further found that complaints against oil pipeline rates challenging its income tax policy, as clarified, would not be considered. A shipper or FERC could cite these decisions in a protest or complaint challenging indexed rates maintained by certain of our Operating Subsidiaries. Whether a pipeline's ultimate owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. If a challenge were brought and FERC were to find that some of the indexed rates exceed levels justified by the cost of service, FERC could order a reduction in the indexed rates and could require reparations. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may sell additional limited partner units, diluting existing interests of Unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue additional limited partner units and certain other equity securities without Unitholder approval. There is no limit on the total number of limited partner units and other equity securities we may issue. When we issue additional limited partner units or other equity securities, the proportionate partnership interest of our existing Unitholders will decrease. The issuance could negatively affect the amount of cash distributed to Unitholders and the market price of the limited partner units. Issuance of additional units will also diminish the relative voting strength of the previously outstanding units. Our general partner and its affiliates may have conflicts with the Partnership. The directors and officers of our general partner and its affiliates have fiduciary duties to manage the general partner in a manner that is beneficial to its sole member, BGH. At the same time, the general partner has fiduciary duties to manage the Partnership in a manner that is beneficial to our partners. Therefore, the general partner's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its sole member. Such conflicts may arise from, among others, the following factors: •decisions by our general partner regarding the amount and timing of our cash expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional limited partner units or other securities can affect the amount of incentive distribution payments we make to our general partner; •under our partnership agreement we reimburse the general partner for the costs of managing and operating the Partnership; and 29 •under our partnership agreement, it is not a breach of our general partner's fiduciary duties for affiliates of our general partner to engage in activities that compete with us. Conflicts of interest with our general partner and its affiliates, including the foregoing factors, could exacerbate periods of lower or declining performance, or otherwise reduce our revenues and operating income. A default under BGH's Credit Facility could result in a change of control of our general partner which would be an event of default under our revolving credit facility. BGH is a party to a $10.0 million credit agreement with SunTrust Bank, pursuant to which it has pledged its ownership interest in our general partner as collateral security for its obligations under this agreement. If BGH were to default on its obligations under its credit agreement, its lender could exercise its rights under this pledge which could result in a change of control of our general partner and a change of control of us. A change of control would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility and require the administrative agent, upon request of the lenders providing a majority of the loan commitments or outstanding loan amounts, to declare all amounts payable by us under our revolving credit facility immediately due and payable. Unitholders have limited voting rights and control of management. Our general partner manages and controls our activities and the activities of our Operating Subsidiaries. Unitholders have no right to elect the general partner or the directors of the general partner on an annual or other ongoing basis. However, if the general partner resigns or is removed, its successor must be elected by holders of a majority of the limited partner units. Unitholders may remove the general partner only by a vote of the holders of at least 80% of the limited partner units and only after receiving certain state regulatory approvals required for the transfer of control of a public utility. As a result, Unitholders will have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to gain control of us or influence our actions. Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner. Our general partner owes fiduciary duties to our Unitholders. Provisions of our partnership agreement and the partnership agreements for each of our operating partnerships, however, contain language limiting the liability of the general partner to the Unitholders for actions or omissions taken in good faith which do not involve gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, the partnership agreements grant broad rights of indemnification to the general partner and its directors, officers, employees and affiliates. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partnership interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were determined that we had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the Unitholders as a group took any action pursuant to our partnership agreement that constituted participation in the "control" of our business, then the Unitholders could be held liable under some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a Unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of distributions paid to the Unitholder for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. 30 Tax Risks to Unitholders Unitholders are urged to read the section above entitled "Tax Considerations for Unitholders" for a more complete discussion of the expected material federal income tax consequences of owning and disposing of limited partner units. The IRS could treat us as a corporation for tax purposes or changes in law could subject us to entity-level taxation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to Unitholders. The availability to a Unitholder of the anticipated after tax economic benefits of an investment in limited partner units depends, in large part, on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. No ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, as to this status has been or is expected to be requested. If we were classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would be required to pay tax on our taxable income at corporate tax rates (currently a 35% federal rate), and distributions received by the Unitholders would generally be taxed a second time as corporate distributions. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to the Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Treatment of us as a corporation would cause a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the Unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the limited partner units. The law could be changed so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise to be subject to entity-level taxation. For example, a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas began in our tax year ending in 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax is imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of this tax on us by Texas will reduce the cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. In addition, Michigan enacted new tax legislation in July 2007. Beginning January 1, 2008, the Partnership will be subject to an entity level tax on gross receipts and business income. Imposition of entity-level taxation on us will reduce the cash available for distribution to our Unitholders. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions that we take may adversely affect the market for limited partner units. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions expressed in this report or the positions taken by us. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of such conclusions or the positions taken by us. A court may not concur with some or all of our positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the limited partner units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the Unitholders and our general partner. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our limited partner units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our limited partner units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the currently proposed legislation does not appear to affect our tax treatment, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other 31 proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our limited partner units. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes even if they do not receive any cash distributions. A Unitholder will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the Unitholder's allocable share of our income, even if the Unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. We cannot guarantee that a Unitholder will receive cash distributions equal to the Unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability to the Unitholder resulting from that income. Further, if we incur a large amount of nonrecourse indebtedness, a Unitholder may incur a tax liability upon the sale of the Unitholder's limited partner units in excess of the amount of cash received in the sale. Ownership of limited partner units may have adverse tax consequences for tax-exempt organizations and certain other investors. Investment in limited partner units by certain tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our taxable income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and thus will be taxable to the Unitholder. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes. Further, Unitholders who are nonresident aliens, foreign corporations or other foreign persons will be required to file a federal income tax return and pay tax on their respective allocable shares of our taxable income because they will be regarded as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States as a result of their ownership of limited partner units. There are limits on the deductibility of our losses that may adversely affect Unitholders. There are a number of limitations that may prevent Unitholders from using their allocable share of our losses as a deduction against unrelated income. In the case of taxpayers subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely-held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the Unitholder disposes of the Unitholder's entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A Unitholder's share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years, but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships. Other limitations that may further restrict the deductibility of our losses include the at-risk rules and the prohibition against loss allocations in excess of limited partner unit tax basis. Tax gain or loss on disposition of limited partner units could be different than expected. A Unitholder who sells limited partner units will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized from the sale (which will include the Unitholder's share of our liabilities to the extent deemed relieved in the sale) and the Unitholder's adjusted tax basis in the sold limited partner units (which will include the Unitholder's share of our liabilities only if not previously used to support loss allocations or to defer tax on our distributions). Prior distributions in excess of cumulative net taxable income allocated to a Unitholder with respect to a limited partner unit which decreased such Unitholder's tax basis in that limited partner unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than the Unitholder's tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price is less than the unit's original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. 32 The reporting of partnership tax information is complicated and subject to audits. We will furnish each Unitholder with a Schedule K-1 that sets forth the Unitholder's share of our income, gains, losses and deductions. We cannot guarantee that these schedules will be prepared in a manner that conforms in all respects to statutory or regulatory requirements or to administrative pronouncements of the IRS. Further, our tax return may be audited, which could result in an audit of a Unitholder's individual tax return and increased liabilities for taxes because of adjustments resulting from the audit. There is a possibility of loss of tax benefits relating to nonconformity of limited partner units and nonconforming depreciation conventions. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of limited partner units, uniformity of the tax characteristics of the limited partner units to a purchaser of limited partner units of the same class must be maintained. To maintain uniformity and for other reasons, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization conventions that may not conform with all aspects of applicable Treasury regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount and timing of tax benefits available to a purchaser of limited partner units, as well as the amount of gain recognized from a sale of the limited partner units, and could have a negative impact on the value of the limited partner units. Unitholders will likely be subject to state, local and other taxes in states where they do not reside as a result of an investment in limited partner units. In addition to United States federal income taxes, Unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which the Unitholder resides or in which we do business or own property. A Unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Unitholder to file all applicable United States federal, state, local and foreign tax returns. Unitholders may have negative tax consequences if we default on our debt or sell assets. If we default on any of our debt, the lenders will have the right to sue us for non-payment. This could cause an investment loss and negative tax consequences for Unitholders through the realization of taxable income by Unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. Likewise, if we were to dispose of assets and realize a taxable gain while there is substantial debt outstanding and proceeds of the sale were applied to the debt, our Unitholders could have increased taxable income without a corresponding cash distribution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 