Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should purchase the common stock only if you are sophisticated in financial matters and business investments. You should carefully consider the following factors before purchasing our common stock. Risks Relating to Microgy Microgy has very little operating history from which to evaluate its business and products. Microgy was formed in 1999 and remains in the early stages of its development. Microgy is developing facilities that use environmentally friendly anaerobic digestion and other technologies to produce biogas from animal and organic wastes. However, none of the facilities to be owned by Microgy has yet been completed. Although Microgy has developed and is operating three single digester facilities in Wisconsin, Microgy has limited experience in the construction and operation of multiple digester facilities such as those Microgy is currently constructing or intends to construct, and limited experience in gas conditioning or the sale of gas as a commodity. Because of this limited experience, Microgy may never be profitable. Microgy has experienced losses to date, and we anticipate it will continue to experience losses into at least 2008. Microgy has a history of losses. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, we incurred a net loss of $6.8 million. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we incurred net losses of $11.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively. We expect our Microgy subsidiary to continue to incur losses, reduce our earnings or, as the case may be, add to our earnings deficit as we seek to further develop its business. These ongoing losses will adversely affect our financial condition into at least 2008. As a result of these losses, we anticipate that we will, in all likelihood, have to rely on external financing for most of our capital requirements. Future losses are likely to continue unless we successfully implement our business plan. If we are not successful in reaching and maintaining profitable operations, we may not be able to attract sufficient capital to continue our operations. Our inability to obtain adequate financing would likely result in the need to curtail or cease our business operations and, consequently, a much lower stock price. Microgy cannot predict when any facility will be completed, what Microgy’s costs will be or, consequently, whether Microgy or any facility developed by Microgy will be profitable. Development of Microgy’s facilities is an inherently risky activity, subject to significant uncertainties and a lengthy development cycle. Uncertainties and risks include those relating to costs and availability of supplies and labor, fluctuations in the prices available for the sale of facility output and timing of completion of construction. Furthermore, obtaining the large number of agreements, permits and approvals necessary to develop, install, operate and manage any of Microgy’s facilities, as well as to market the energy and other co-products and to provide necessary related resources and services, involves a long development cycle and decision-making process. Microgy is required to enter into or obtain some or all of the following in connection with the development of its facilities: • Site agreements; • Supply contracts; • Design/build or other construction-related agreements; • Off-take agreements for gas produced; • Power sales contracts; • Various co-product sales agreements; 19 Table of Contents • Waste disposal agreements; • Licenses; • Environmental and other permits; • Local government approvals; and • Financing commitments required for the successful completion of facilities under consideration. Microgy’s failure to accomplish any of these objectives could materially increase the cost, or prevent the successful completion of, development or operation of facilities and incur the loss of any investment made. Many of these objectives are dependent upon decisions by third parties. Delays in such parties’ decision-making process are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our development costs, cost of operations, receipt of revenue and sales projections. We expect that, in some cases, it may take a year or more to obtain decisions on permits and approvals and to negotiate and close these complex agreements. Such delays could harm our operating results and financial condition. As a result of the foregoing uncertainties we are unable to project with certainty Microgy’s organizational, structural, staffing or other overhead costs, the construction or operating costs associated with any facility, or whether any facility, or Microgy as a whole, will generate a profit. If Microgy fails to generate a profit, your investment in our securities will be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain needed financing for Microgy’s facilities, the value of our Microgy investment may be reduced significantly. Because we have not yet generated sufficient positive cash flow, and do not expect to do so until at least 2008, we do not have adequate funds on hand to complete construction of the facilities we currently have planned. We are seeking and will require corporate, project or group financing to fund the cost of any development we may decide to pursue for Microgy’s facilities. This financing may be difficult or impossible for us to obtain. If we are unable to obtain such financing, the value of our Microgy investment may be reduced significantly, and we may be required to substantially curtail our business or completely cease construction or operation of any facilities. This financing will depend on prospective lenders’ or investors’ review of our financial capabilities as well as specific facilities and other factors, including assessment of our ability to construct and manage each facility successfully. If we are unable to obtain the required financing, your investment in our securities will be materially adversely affected. If Microgy is unable to obtain sufficient manure and substrate for its facilities at an acceptable cost, such facilities, and Microgy as a whole, will likely not be profitable. The performance of Microgy’s facilities is dependent on the availability of large quantities of animal manure and substrates derived from animal and other organic waste resources to produce raw energy and meet performance standards in the generation of renewable natural gas. While Microgy has or is expected to have agreements relating to the supply of manure and substrate, these agreements may not cover all of Microgy’s requirements for such resources. Lack of manure or substrate or adverse changes in the nature or quality of such waste resources or the cost to supply them would seriously affect the ability of Microgy’s facilities to produce gas at profitable levels and, consequently, its ability to develop and finance facilities and to operate efficiently and generate income. As a result, its revenue and financial condition would be materially and negatively affected. We cannot assure you that the waste resources Microgy’s facilities require will be available in the future for free or at prices that make them affordable or accessible. 20 Table of Contents Microgy is expected to derive a significant portion of its revenues from the sale of gas as a commodity; as a result, it will be exposed to risk relating to volatility in the commodity price of natural gas, which could have a material adverse impact on its profitability. Microgy is expected to derive a significant portion of its revenues from the sale of renewable natural gas as a commodity. As a result, Microgy will be exposed to market risk with respect to the commodity pricing applicable to its gas production. Realized commodity prices received for such production are expected to be primarily driven by spot prices applicable to natural gas. Historically, natural gas prices have been volatile, with recent significant price declines, and Microgy expects such volatility to continue. Furthermore, future supply of and demand for natural gas is unpredictable. There are many players in the markets for natural gas and other energy commodities that natural gas tends to track, including large energy companies and foreign cartels, that are of far greater size than Microgy and which can often cause significant movement in the short- and long-term supply and prices of natural gas. Fluctuations in the commodity price of natural gas may have a materially adverse impact on the profitability of some of Microgy’s facilities, particularly where the facility does not have a long-term contract for the sale of its output at a fixed or predictable price. At such time as Microgy’s facilities begin to produce commercial quantities of gas for sale as a commodity, it intends to explore various strategies, including hedging transactions and long-term sale agreements, in order to mitigate the associated commodity price risk. Furthermore, Microgy Holdings is required by the terms of its tax-exempt bonds to maintain certain gas price protection arrangements for specified periods of time. However, we cannot assure you that any such risk management vehicles will be available or successful. As a result, any such facility, and Microgy as a whole, may become unprofitable. We expect Microgy to derive substantial revenues from sales of carbon sequestration credits and other environmental attributes, but the market for such attributes is nascent and may not develop in a manner that allows Microgy to profit from the sales of such credits to the level projected, or at all. The multiple digester facilities that we plan to implement through Microgy Holdings and our other subsidiaries are expected to produce carbon sequestration credits and other marketable environmental attributes. While there exist trading markets for these attributes, and additional trading markets or other commercial avenues may develop, the existing trading markets are new and experience thin trading and price volatility, which can hinder sales of credits and make their value unpredictable. Furthermore, much of the participation in these markets is voluntary, in response to social and environmental ethical concerns, as opposed to being driven by regulatory requirements. While many states are pursuing carbon emissions limits and related initiatives that may spur greater development of and participation in these markets, we are unable to determine the effect of these initiatives on these markets. We cannot assure you that these trading markets will develop further, or even that they will continue to exist. In addition, many of our agreements with our business partners and investors require us to share such credits or any revenues we derive from sales of such credits, and agreements we negotiate in the future may also include such requirements. As a result of the foregoing, we may recognize significantly smaller revenues than we anticipate from the sale of carbon sequestration credits or other environmental attributes. We have pledged all of our interest in our facilities in Texas as security for the loan relating to Microgy Holdings’ tax-exempt bond financing in Texas. We have invested, and expect to invest, substantial funds and resources in the development of four multi-digester, renewable natural gas facilities in Texas modeled on the facility located in Stephenville, Texas, commonly known as the Huckabay Ridge facility. We have pledged all of our interest in these facilities as collateral security for the loan to our subsidiary, Microgy Holdings, from the Gulf Coast Industrial Development Authority of Texas relating to the $60 million tax-exempt bond financing we completed in November 2006. While the loan is not recourse to Environmental Power, Environmental Power is required to provide at least 20% of the construction costs of these facilities, as well as to cover any cost overruns in construction, which represents a substantial investment of corporate resources. If Microgy Holdings were to default on this loan, we would lose 21 Table of Contents some or all of our investment in the Texas facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Microgy faces competition in the renewable energy market as well as for the resources necessary to operate its facilities. Microgy plans to generate revenue from the development and ownership of facilities that market renewable, “green” energy in addition to providing pollution control features to the agricultural and food industry markets. Microgy’s “green” competitors include other energy producers using biomass combustion, biomass anaerobic digestion, geothermal, solar, wind, new hydro and other renewable sources. These companies represent a significant class of competitors because they will compete with Microgy for sale of marketable renewable energy credits and participation in various renewable portfolios and other programs. Microgy also faces many forms of competition with respect to the resources required to operate its facilities. Such competition includes other providers of pollution control, including environmental engineers, providers of pollution control systems, private companies, public companies, associations, cooperatives, government programs, such as AgStar, foreign companies, and educational pilot programs. Furthermore, there are many companies that offer anaerobic digester systems. We believe that at least 60 companies offer complete systems or components to these systems in the U.S. market. A number of competitors have more mature businesses and have successfully installed anaerobic digester systems in the United States. Microgy may be forced to compete with any of these competitors for access to equipment, construction supplies, skilled labor for the construction and operation of its facilities and the supplies of manure and substrate required to operate its facilities. In addition, Microgy may also have to compete for access to substances that make desirable substrates with other users of these substances, such as recyclers of waste grease and producers of biodiesel and other biofuels. The effect of such competition could be reflected in higher costs associated with obtaining access to these resources, as well as an insufficient supply of these resources for the profitable operation of Microgy’s facilities. If Microgy cannot obtain and maintain these supplies, or cannot obtain or maintain them at reasonable costs, the profitability of Microgy’s business will be adversely affected. Microgy is a small company, and the entrance of large companies into the alternative fuels and renewable energy business will likely harm its business. Competition in the traditional energy business from electric utilities and other energy companies is well established, with many substantial entities having multi-billion dollar, multi-national operations. Competition in the alternative fuels and renewable energy business is expanding with the growth of the industry and the advent of many new technologies. Larger companies, due to their better capitalization, will be better positioned than Microgy to develop new technologies and to install existing or more advanced renewable energy facilities, which could harm Microgy’s business. Because the market for renewable energy is unproven, it is possible that we may expend large sums of money to bring Microgy’s offerings to market and that the revenue that Microgy derives from these offerings may be insufficient to fund our operations. Microgy’s business approach to the renewable energy may not produce results as anticipated, be profitable or be readily accepted by the marketplace. We cannot estimate whether the gas produced by facilities based on Microgy’s technology will materialize at anticipated prices, or whether satisfactory profit margins will be achieved. If such pricing levels are not achieved or sustained, or if Microgy’s technologies and business approach to Microgy’s markets do not achieve or sustain broad acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and negatively impacted. 22 Table of Contents Because we have not filed patents to protect Microgy’s intellectual property, we might not be able to prevent others from using Microgy’s technology; conversely, others who have filed for patent or other protection might be able to prevent Microgy from using its technology. Neither Microgy nor, we believe, Microgy’s licensor has filed any patent applications on the intellectual property which forms the basis of Microgy’s technology. Should Microgy or its licensor decide to file patent applications, we cannot assure you that any patent applications relating to Microgy’s existing or future products or technologies will result in patents being issued, that any issued patents will afford adequate protection to Microgy, or that such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that others have not developed, or will not develop, similar technologies that will compete with Microgy’s without infringing upon Microgy’s intellectual property rights or those of its licensor. Third parties, including potential competitors, may already have filed patent applications relating to the subject matter of Microgy’s current or future technology. In the event that any such patents are issued to such parties, such patents may preclude Microgy or its licensor from obtaining patent protection for its technologies, products or processes. In addition, such patents may hinder or prevent Microgy from commercializing its technology and could require Microgy to enter into licenses with such parties. We cannot assure you that any required licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Microgy relies heavily on confidentiality agreements and licensing agreements to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology. To compete effectively, Microgy may have to defend the rights to its intellectual property from time to time. Such defense costs may be significant and have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we may lack the financial resources to adequately defend Microgy’s intellectual property. If Microgy’s relationship with the licensor of its technology was terminated for any reason or such licensor ceased doing business, our Microgy business would be negatively impacted. Microgy licenses its anaerobic digester technology from Danish Biogas Technology, A.S., referred to as DBT, a Danish company. The license agreement grants to Microgy a perpetual, exclusive license to develop facilities based on this technology in North America. Pursuant to the license agreement, Microgy is required to pay a one-time licensing fee per facility and engineering and design fees to DBT in connection with the development of facilities. Microgy relies upon DBT for technical advice and engineering assistance. Therefore, if DBT were to cease doing business, our Microgy business may be negatively impacted. Because all of the cash flow we receive from Buzzard is currently dedicated to the repayment of loan obligations, we are entirely dependent upon the capital we raise and Microgy’s cash flow to fund the continuing development of Microgy. We do not expect to receive cash from the operations of Buzzard, because such cash, if any, will be used to repay interest and principal on our loan from an affiliate of ArcLight Energy Partners Fund I, L.P., referred to as ArcLight. As a result, if we are not able to raise additional capital to fund Microgy’s operations and our corporate expenses until Microgy’s operations begin to generate positive cash flow, we will not be able to continue to fund Microgy’s operations at their current levels, and our business will be materially and adversely affected. Microgy’s facilities are likely to be subject to numerous governmental regulations. We expect that Microgy’s facilities are likely to be subject to various local, state and federal government regulations, including regulations covering air and water quality, solid waste disposal and related pollution issues. These regulations are mandated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and state and local governments and are usually implemented through a permitting process, with ongoing compliance requirements thereafter. In addition, our activities will fall under a number of health and safety regulations and laws and regulations relating to farming and zoning. Compliance with these regulations and permitting requirements could delay the development of facilities and could be costly and harm our financial condition. 23 Table of Contents As producers of carbon dioxide, Microgy’s facilities may become subject to regulations or taxes based on carbon emissions. Microgy’s facilities produce and emit into the atmosphere carbon dioxide as a result of the anaerobic digestion process that they employ. While such facilities capture a significantly greater amount of carbon, in the form of methane, than they produce in the form of carbon dioxide, Microgy’s facilities may still be subject to future federal or state legislation or regulation, or the implementation of international treaties, which seek to limit or impose a cost on carbon emissions. If any such legislation, regulations or treaties were implemented, Microgy’s may be required to expend resources to capture the carbon dioxide it produces, pay a tax on its carbon emissions, purchase carbon emissions credits or take similar actions. Any of the foregoing could harm the profitability of Microgy’s facilities. Risks Relating to Buzzard Cash distributions resulting from the Scrubgrass operations have been dedicated to the repayment of the ArcLight loan. We will not receive any distributions from Buzzard until the loan from ArcLight is repaid. Thereafter, we will receive the next $1,400,000 of distributions, after which we will share distributions equally with ArcLight through December 31, 2012. As a result, we cannot rely on cash flows from Buzzard to fund our other operations. Certain projections provided by the operator of the Scrubgrass facility indicate a shortfall in revenues available to make certain rental payments which become due commencing in June 2006; as a result, Buzzard may default on its lease obligations The operator of the Scrubgrass facility has projected that Buzzard may have a shortfall in revenues available to make certain rental payments which become due commencing in June 2006. Buzzard, the operator and ArcLight have begun exploratory discussions regarding mutually acceptable options. Possible options include the restructuring of the lease agreement relating to the Scrubgrass facility and other agreements to which Buzzard is party. In the meantime, Buzzard and SGL have entered into a forebearance agreement which runs through July 1, 2007. Should these projections prove accurate, and if Buzzard is not able to reach an agreement with the relevant parties on a restructuring of the Scrubgrass lease, the missed payments would constitute an event of default by Buzzard under the lease which could result in the termination of the lease, unless the missed payments are otherwise cured or excused. If our subsidiary EPC Corporation defaults on its obligations under the loan agreement with ArcLight, we may lose ownership of EPC Corporation and, thereby, the leasehold interest in the Scrubgrass facility. EPC Corporation’s loan from ArcLight is secured by a pledge of all of the outstanding stock of EPC Corporation, which in turns holds Buzzard Power Corporation as its sole asset, the entity that maintains the Scrubgrass facility. If EPC Corporation were to default on its obligations under the agreement with ArcLight, ArcLight would have the right to foreclose on this pledge and take ownership of EPC Corporation. As a result, we would lose our interest in the Scrubgrass facility. The events of default under the agreements with ArcLight are narrowly defined. The most significant default is related to non-payment. EPC Corporation is only required to make payments when there is a distribution from Scrubgrass. Nevertheless, if EPC Corporation does not make any payments in a 24-month period, a default under the agreements with ArcLight would be triggered. We do not control the management of the Scrubgrass facility, our primary revenue-generating asset. Buzzard has a management services agreement with Cogentrix, formerly PG&E National Energy Group, to manage the Scrubgrass facility and a 15-year operation and maintenance agreement with PG&E Operating 24 Table of Contents Services to operate the facility. These agreements contain provisions that limit Buzzard’s participation in the management and operation of the Scrubgrass facility. Because Buzzard does not exercise control over the operation or management of the Scrubgrass facility, decisions may be made, notwithstanding our opposition, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Buzzard’s current power generation revenue is derived from only one customer The Scrubgrass facility power generation revenue is earned under a long-term power purchase agreement for all output with one customer, Pennsylvania Electric Company, or Penelec, a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corporation. This concentration of Buzzard’s revenue with this customer will continue for the foreseeable future. If this customer goes out of business or defaults on its payments to Buzzard, its operating results will be adversely affected. Furthermore, the Scrubgrass facility operates as a qualifying facility, or QF, under the Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act of 1975, or PURPA. The loss of QF status could trigger defaults in the project’s power sales agreement, or PSA, with Penelec. Therefore, Buzzard would most likely have to sell power at prevailing market rates that are much lower than the rate outlined in the PSA. A large increase in interest rates may adversely affect Buzzard’s and EPC Corporation’s operating results. Our Buzzard and EPC Corporation subsidiaries are leveraged with variable rate and fixed rate debt obligations. Additionally, Buzzard has lease expenses that are based on the principal, interest and fees of the debt obligations of the lessor of the Scrubgrass facility, most of which carries variable rate interest. Over 90% of the debt obligations and lease obligations with respect to Buzzard and EPC Corporation have variable interest rates. Therefore, significant increases in market interest rates will adversely affect operating results since Buzzard is required to pay the Scrubgrass lessor’s debt obligations as a base lease expense. For example, as of December 31, 2006, a one percent increase in the London Interbank Offering Rate, referred to as LIBOR, and our quoted bond rates would result in a $1,202,320 increase in Buzzard’s lease expense. Poor quality fuel and other materials may expose us to environmental liability and reduce Buzzard’s operating results. Buzzard obtains waste coal for its Scrubgrass facility primarily from coal mining companies on a long-term basis because waste coal is plentiful and generally creates environmental hazards, such as acid drainage, when not disposed of properly. The waste coal is burned in the Scrubgrass facility using a circulating fluidized bed combustion system. During the circulating fluidized bed combustion process, the waste coal is treated with other substances such as limestone. Depending on the quality of the waste coal and the limestone, the facility operator may need to add additional waste coal or other substances to create the appropriate balance of substances in order to produce the best fuel or sorbent consistency for power generation and compliance with air quality standards. Therefore, the cost of generating power is directly impacted by the quality of the waste coal, which supplies the Scrubgrass power generation facility. Certain conditions, such as poor weather, can create situations where the facility operator has less control over the quality of the waste coal. Poor fuel quality may impact Buzzard’s future operating results. If Buzzard violates performance guarantees granted to Penelec, Buzzard will be required to provide Penelec with an incentive payment. Buzzard’s agreement for the sale of power to Penelec contains a provision that requires the Scrubgrass facility to provide Penelec with a minimum output of 85% of capacity based on a rolling 3-year average. If Buzzard does not comply with this performance guarantee, it will be required to compensate Penelec with an incentive payment. The payment of an incentive payment would have an adverse effect on Buzzard’s operating results. 25 Table of Contents Buzzard’s power producing activities could be subject to costly regulations and tariffs. Buzzard’s Scrubgrass facility produces power for sale to the local electrical grid. The sale of this power may come under the regulations of the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or FERC, although such sales are currently exempt. These commissions set the price tariffs under which energy can be sold or purchased, they regulate the sale of some generation assets and they set the design standards for the interconnection of power producing equipment with the electrical power grid. Any facility that sells electricity to the grid may come under regulation by these commissions, which may impair or delay Buzzard’s ability to sell the energy generated. Substantial delays may materially affect Buzzard’s financial condition. Furthermore, there are from time to time various legislative proposals that would amend or comprehensively restructure PURPA and the electric utility industry. Most recently, these proposals resulted in the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which eliminates the PURPA obligation of electric utilities to enter into new contracts with qualifying facilities, or QFs. While the Energy Policy Act does not affect existing contracts, if PURPA is amended again or repealed in the future, the statutory requirement that electric utilities purchase electricity at full-avoided cost from QFs could be repealed or modified. While we expect that existing contracts would continue be honored, the repeal or modification of these statutory purchase requirements under PURPA in the future could, among other things, increase pressure from electric utilities to renegotiate existing contracts. Should there be changes in statutory purchase requirements under PURPA, and should these changes result in amendments to the current power purchase agreement with Penelec for the Scrubgrass facility that reduce the contract rates, Buzzard’s operating results could be negatively impacted. Risks Relating to Both Microgy and Buzzard Our operating results are difficult to predict in advance and may fluctuate significantly, which may result in a substantial decline in our stock price. Our operating results are difficult to predict in advance and may fluctuate significantly, and a failure to meet the expectations of analysts or our stockholders would likely result in a substantial decline in our stock price. Factors that are likely to cause our results to fluctuate include the following: • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • the success or failure of the facilities currently underway; • our ability to specify, develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities and bring them to volume production in a timely manner; • the rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards in our target markets; and • other unforeseen activities or issues. If our operating results fluctuate greatly, our business may be materially adversely affected and our stock price will likely decline. Our facilities may be subject to numerous governmental regulations. We expect that our facilities will be subject to various government regulations, including regulations covering air and water quality, solid waste disposal and related pollution issues. These regulations are mandated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and various state and local governments and are usually implemented through a permitting process, with ongoing compliance requirements thereafter. In addition, our activities will fall under a number of health and safety regulations and laws and regulations relating to farms and zoning. Compliance with these regulations and permitting requirements could delay the development of facilities, increase the construction and operating costs of our facilities and harm our financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock We have numerous outstanding shares of restricted common stock, as well as options, warrants and shares of preferred stock exercisable or convertible into a substantial number of shares of our common stock; the resale of outstanding restricted shares, as well as the exercise or conversion of these securities and the resale of the underlying shares, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The resale by our stockholders of shares of our restricted common stock or securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. A significant portion of our outstanding shares of common stock had been restricted from immediate resale, but are now available for sale in the market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 2,134,067 shares of restricted common stock outstanding, all of which shares are eligible for resale without volume and manner of sale restrictions in accordance with Rule 144(k). Furthermore, we currently have on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission an effective registration statement that permits the resale by certain of our stockholders of up to 1,677,688 shares of our restricted common stock, of which 1,066,928 shares are currently issued and outstanding and 610,760 shares are subject to outstanding warrants that are currently exercisable at a price of $6.60 per share. We also currently have on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission an effective registration statement that permits the resale of up to 100,000 shares of our common stock subject to warrants exercisable at a price of $6.33 per share by the holders of such warrants. In addition, in connection with our sale of shares of our series A preferred stock and common stock warrants on November 9, 2006, we filed a registration statement to permit the resale of up to 4,387,360 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of series A preferred stock and exercise of such warrants. The shares of series A preferred stock are convertible at a conversion price of $5.271 per share, and the common stock warrants are exercisable at a price of $5.522 per share as to 1,406,205 of the warrants, and $5.271 per share as to 168,745 of the warrants. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding options to acquire up to approximately 3,027,107 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $1.40 to $10.50 per share. The shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of these options will be freely transferable without restriction, except to the extent that they are held by our affiliates. Any shares held by our affiliates may only be sold in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144. These volume limitations restrict the number of shares that may be sold by an affiliate in any three-month period to the greater of 1% of the number of shares then outstanding, which equals approximately 96,500 shares as of December 31, 2006, or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. In addition, pursuant to our business development agreement with Cargill, Incorporated, we may issue warrants to Cargill from time to time to acquire up to an aggregate of 4.99% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis, at an exercise price equal to 75% of the closing price of our common stock on the date on which such warrants are issued. As a result of the resale of outstanding shares of our common stock, including restricted shares and shares issuable upon exercise or conversion of the foregoing securities, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 281,241 shares have been designated as series A 9% cumulative convertible preferred stock, referred to as the series A preferred stock, and which are currently issued and outstanding. The preferred stock not already designated and issued may be issued in series from time to time with such designations, rights, preferences and limitations as our board of directors may determine by resolution without stockholder approval. While the terms of the series A preferred stock do not currently allow for the issuance of preferred stock having dividend and liquidation preferences greater than or senior to the series A preferred stock, any future issuances of preferred stock may enjoy dividend and liquidation preferences over our common stock, thereby diminishing the value of our common stock. Our management and directors, as well as the holders of our series A preferred stock, are able to exercise significant control over our management and affairs. As of December 31, 2006, management and current directors, including Richard E. Kessel, Joseph E. Cresci, Kamlesh R. Tejwani, Robert I. Weisberg, John R. Cooper, August Schumacher, Jr., Lon Hatamiya, Steven Kessner, Dennis Haines and John F. O’Neill, beneficially owned approximately 21.8% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, the three holders of our series A preferred stock, two of which are affiliated with each other, control approximately 22.6% of the total number of votes currently entitled to be cast at any meeting of our stockholders. While there are no voting agreements among them, such persons, as a group, may be able to exercise some level of control over the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder action, including the election of members to our board of directors and the approval of significant change in control transactions. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and, therefore, your opportunity to sell your shares in such a transaction. Furthermore, the holders of our series A preferred stock have special approval rights with respect to certain changes to our certificate of incorporation and certain other corporate actions. The lack of a developed trading market may make it difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. While our common stock is currently listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange, trading activity in our common stock has fluctuated and has at times been limited. For example, for the one-month period from September 1, 2006 to September 30, 2006, our daily trading volume ranged from a low of 9,000 shares to a high of 94,400 shares, and averaged 41,185 shares. We cannot guarantee that a consistently active trading market will develop in the future. As a result, a holder of our common stock may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new facilities and products by us or our competitors, or our failure to achieve operating results consistent with any securities analysts’ projections of our performance. For example, for the six-month period from April 1, 2006 to September 30, 2006 the closing price of our common stock ranged from a low of $3.75 to a high of $8.98, and for the one-month period from September 1, 2006 to September 30, 2006 the closing price ranged from $3.75 to $5.03. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and volatility that have particularly affected the market price of many emerging growth and development stage companies. Such fluctuations and volatility have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. As a result of fluctuations related or unrelated to our performance, the value of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents We will require and are actively seeking significant additional financing, which may result in our issuing a significant number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock, which in turn may dilute the value of your shares. We have historically needed to raise capital to fund our operating losses. We expect to continue to incur operation losses into at least 2008. Although we recently completed a tax-exempt bond financing in Texas to finance a portion of the construction costs of our Texas facilities, as well as a $15 million private placement of our series A preferred stock and common stock warrants, we will require and will continue to seek corporate and project financing to fund our ongoing operations and growth plans as well as and the cost of any development we may decide to pursue for our facilities. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any such financing could be in the form of debt or equity instruments or a combination of debt and equity instruments. To the extent any such financing involves equity convertible debt, we may issue a significant number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock, which will dilute your investment in our common stock, and we may issue such shares at prices that may be lower than the price you paid for our common stock. In addition, if we issue shares of preferred stock, such preferred stock may have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Indeed, the shares of series A preferred stock issued in our November 2006 private placement have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Because we are authorized to issue shares of additional series of preferred stock, as designated by our board of directors, subject to certain limitations included in the terms of our series A preferred stock, we may issue more shares of preferred stock in the future. Issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future could dilute existing stockholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the authority to issue up to 21,400,000 shares of common stock, of which 9,652,025 are issued and outstanding and 5,334,247 have been reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options and warrants outstanding as of December 31, 2006. An additional 2,812,410 shares have been reserved for issuance in connection with the conversion of shares of our series A preferred stock issued in our November 2006 private placement. We may also issue warrants to purchase up to 5% of our common stock, on a fully diluted basis, to Cargill, Incorporated pursuant to the terms of our business development agreement. We also have the authority to issue preferred stock as previously described, debt securities convertible into common stock, and options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. We may issue shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock at values below our market price up to a maximum of 19.9% of our outstanding common stock without stockholder approval, which values may be substantially below the price paid for our common stock by our stockholders. We also do not need stockholder approval to issue an unlimited number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock (provided sufficient shares of common stock are authorized and unreserved) at or above our market price pursuant to certain American Stock Exchange requirements. Any such issuances could be at values below the price paid for our common stock by our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents Our outstanding series A preferred stock has rights and preferences superior to that of our common stock, may impair our ability to raise additional financing, may harm our financial condition if we are required to redeem it and could have the effect of discouraging an acquisition or reducing the amount of proceeds available to common stockholders upon such an acquisition. Our shares of series A preferred stock have rights and preferences which are superior to those of our common stock, including: • an accruing dividend of 9% on the stated value of each outstanding share of series A preferred stock, payable before the payment of any dividends on our common stock; • a preference upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Environmental Power equal to two times the stated value of each share of preferred stock, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends; • the right to consent to certain changes to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and certain other significant corporate actions; and • the right to a payment equal to 150% of the stated value of each outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock upon certain change-in-control events. Our series A preferred stock may also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have agreed not to issue securities senior to or on a par with the series A preferred stock and to limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness while such preferred stock is outstanding, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise funds necessary to continue our business. In addition, the series A preferred stock provides for various triggering events, such as our common stock not being listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange, Nasdaq Global Market or New York Stock Exchange, the failure to deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion and specified change of control transactions. Several other triggering events are described in the certificate of designations, preferences and rights of the series A preferred stock. If one of these triggering events occurs, we may be required to redeem all or part of the outstanding shares of series A preferred stock at 120% of their stated value (150% in the case of certain change in control transactions), including payment of accrued dividends and penalties. Some of the triggering events include matters over which we may have some, little, or no control. Any such redemption could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. Furthermore, by virtue of their voting power and other rights and preferences, the outstanding series A preferred stock could have the effect of blocking or discouraging certain acquisitions of the company or reducing the proceeds available to common stockholders as a result of any such acquisitions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 2001, and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. The future payment of dividends directly depends upon the future earnings, capital requirements, financial requirements and other factors that our board of directors will consider, and is subject to the prior payment of all accrued but unpaid dividends on our series A preferred stock. Furthermore, the terms of our series A preferred stock prohibit the payment of dividends on our common stock while any shares of our series A preferred stock are outstanding. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock, the return on investment on our common stock will depend solely on an increase, if any, in the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents 