Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that may affect us and investments in us. Security holders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the discussion of other factors that could affect us or investments in us included elsewhere in this Report. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are identifying these risk factors as important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Inherent in our Business Changes in petroleum demand and distribution and weakness in the United States economy may adversely affect our business. Demand for the services we provide depends upon the demand for the products we handle in the regions we serve and the supply of products in the regions connected to our pipelines or from which our customers source products handled by our terminals. Prevailing economic conditions, refined petroleum product, fuel oil and crude oil price levels and weather affect the demand for liquid petroleum products. Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by our pipelines also affect the demand for petroleum products because a substantial portion of the refined petroleum products transported by our pipelines and throughput at our terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft. If these factors result in a decline in demand for refined petroleum products, our business would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because we operate without the benefit of either exclusive franchises from government entities or long-term contracts. Recent increases in demand for the services we provide in the Caribbean has been driven by increases in crude oil production from Latin America, crude oil movements from South America to Asia, and Latin America demand for clean petroleum products from the United States and Europe. Changes in these and other global patterns of supply and demand for fuel oil, crude oil and clean petroleum products could affect the demand for the services we provide in the Caribbean and the prices we can charge for those services. 18 Table of Contents In recent years, the federal government has enacted renewable fuel or energy efficiency statutory mandates that may have the impact over time of reducing the demand for fuel oil or clean refined petroleum products, particularly with respect to gasoline, in certain markets. Other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict or control the effect of these factors on us. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced supply or demand and increased price competition for our products and services. In addition, economic conditions could result in a loss of customers in our operating segments because their access to the capital necessary to purchase services we provide is limited. Our operating results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions in certain regions of the United States. If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the United States remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A significant decline in production at certain refineries served by certain of our pipelines and terminals, or a fundamental change in the primary source of supply of petroleum products to a region, could materially reduce the volume of liquid petroleum products we transport and adversely impact our operating results. Refineries that our pipelines and terminals service could partially or completely shut down their operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors such as unscheduled maintenance, catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers; or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations. For example, a significant decline in production at the Wood River refinery, Paulsboro refinery or Lima refinery could negatively impact the financial performance of such assets and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if there is a fundamental shift in the primary source of supply of petroleum products to a region our pipelines serve and our pipeline infrastructure in the region is not well-suited to serve the new primary source, the performance of such assets could be negatively impacted, and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Competition could adversely affect our operating results. Generally, pipelines are the lowest cost method for long-haul overland movement of liquid petroleum products. Therefore, the most significant competitors for large volume shipments in our Pipelines & Terminals segment are other existing pipelines, some of which are owned or controlled by major integrated oil companies. In addition, new pipelines (including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems) could be built to effectively compete with us in particular locations. Our Pipelines & Terminals segment competes with marine transportation in some areas. Tankers and barges on the Great Lakes account for some of the volume to certain Michigan, Ohio and upstate New York locations during the approximately eight non-winter months of the year. Barges are presently a competitive factor for deliveries to the New York City area, the Pittsburgh area, Connecticut and locations on the Ohio River such as Cincinnati, Ohio and locations on the Mississippi River, such as St. Louis, Missouri. Additionally, our South Portland and Bangor, Maine terminals are mainly supplied by overseas ships from Canada and Europe. Trucks competitively deliver liquid petroleum products in a number of areas that we serve. While their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas that we serve. The availability of truck transportation places a significant competitive constraint on our ability to increase our tariff rates. 19 Table of Contents Privately arranged exchanges of liquid petroleum products between marketers in different locations are another form of competition for our Pipelines & Terminals segment. Generally, these exchanges reduce both parties’ costs by eliminating or reducing transportation charges. In addition, consolidation among refiners and marketers, which has accelerated in recent years, has altered distribution patterns, reducing demand for transportation services in some markets and increasing them in other markets. The Pipelines & Terminals segment also generally competes with other terminals in the same geographic market. Many competitive terminals are owned by major integrated oil and gas companies. These major oil and gas companies may have the opportunity for product exchanges that are not available to the Pipelines & Terminals segment’s terminals. While the Pipelines & Terminals segment’s terminal throughput fees are not regulated, they are subject to price competition from competitive terminals and alternate modes of delivering liquid petroleum products to end-users such as retail gasoline stations. Our Global Marine Terminals segment primarily competes with other marine terminals in the Caribbean, terminals in New York Harbor, and to a lesser extent, terminals on the Gulf Coast. Many competitive terminals are owned by major integrated oil and gas companies, refiners and master limited partnerships. Although the Global Marine Terminals segment’s storage fees are not regulated, the segment is subject to price competition from competitive terminals. Our Global Marine Terminals segment also competes with alternatives to terminal storage of crude oil and refined petroleum products, such as floating storage and lightering, which could reduce demand for our Caribbean terminal services. Our Merchant Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities, and must compete with major integrated oil companies, their marketing affiliates, and independent brokers and marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Some of these companies have superior access to capital resources, which could affect our ability to effectively compete with them. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines and stored in our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of ours. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in Adjusted EBITDA (see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in Item 7 for a discussion of Adjusted EBITDA, which is our primary measure of performance), net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions. We are a holding company and depend entirely on our operating subsidiaries’ distributions to service our debt obligations and pay cash distributions to our unitholders. We are a holding company with no material operations. If we do not receive cash distributions from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations or to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Among other things, this would adversely affect the market price of our LP Units. We are currently bound by the terms of our Credit Facility, which prohibit us from making distributions to our unitholders if a default under the Credit Facility exists at the time of the distribution or would result from the distribution. Approval from the Central Bank of the Bahamas will be required before BORCO can make distributions to us. Our operating subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions which could further limit each operating subsidiary’s ability to make distributions to us. 20 Table of Contents We may incur unknown and contingent liabilities from assets we have acquired. Some of the assets we have acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products. Releases from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way may have occurred prior to our acquisition. In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. We performed a certain level of diligence in connection with our acquisitions and attempted to ascertain the extent of liabilities that might be associated with an acquired facility, but there may be unknown and contingent liabilities related to our acquisitions of which we are unaware. If a significant release or event occurred in the past at any of our acquired assets and we are responsible for all or a significant portion of the liability associated with such release or event, it could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We could be liable for unknown obligations relating to any of our acquired assets, for which indemnification is not available, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. If we incorrectly predict the future results of acquired operations or assets, we may not realize all of the benefits we expect from an acquisition. We may make dispositions on terms that are less favorable than we anticipated. Part of our business strategy includes making acquisitions and, when appropriate, dispositions. In evaluating acquisitions and dispositions, we prepare one or more financial cases based on a number of business, industry, economic, legal, regulatory, and other assumptions applicable to the proposed transaction. Although we expect a reasonable basis will exist for those assumptions, the assumptions typically involve current estimates of future conditions. Many assumptions are beyond our control and may not materialize. Because of the uncertainty and risk of inaccuracy associated with these assumptions, including financial projections, we may not realize the full benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, or we may encounter unanticipated difficulties locating buyers and securing favorable terms for dispositions, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing minority equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could adversely affect our future financial results. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of our being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions, including the integration of acquired assets into our existing business, may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition or we may be unable to integrate certain assets we acquire as part of a larger acquisition to the extent such assets relate to a business for which we have no or limited experience. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Debt securities we issue are, and will continue to be, junior to claims of our operating subsidiaries’ creditors. Our outstanding debt securities are structurally subordinated to the claims of our operating subsidiaries’ creditors. In addition, any debt securities we issue in the future will likewise be subordinated in the same manner. Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our operating subsidiaries. Our claim to the assets of our operating subsidiaries derives from our own ownership interests in those operating subsidiaries. Claims of our operating subsidiaries’ creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of our operating subsidiaries over our own ownership interests and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including our debt securities. 21 Table of Contents Our rate structures are subject to regulation and change by FERC; required changes could be adverse. Buckeye Pipe Line, Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO are interstate common carriers regulated by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the Department of Energy Organization Act. FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is indexing rates for inflation. In the alternative, a pipeline is allowed to charge market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market. A pipeline may also charge rates based on the agreement of all shippers receiving a service, which are referred to as settlement-based rates. The indexing methodology has been and continues to be used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO. In December 2010, FERC amended its regulations to change the index to the Producer Price Index (“PPI”) — finished goods plus 2.65% effective July 1, 2011. If the index were to be negative, we would be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the PPI might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus potentially hampering our ability to recover our costs by relying on the index. Where circumstances justify it, FERC permits pipelines to use one of three alternatives to indexing—pipelines may seek to use market-based, cost-based, or settlement-based rates. Until February 2013, Buckeye Pipe Line was authorized to charge rates under an exception to the rules generally applicable to oil pipelines. In 1991, Buckeye Pipe Line sought and received FERC permission to determine rate changes on Buckeye Pipe Line’s pipeline system (the “Buckeye System”) using a unique methodology that constrained rates based on competitive pressures in markets that FERC found to be competitive, as well as certain other limits on rate increases in other markets on the Buckeye System (the “Buckeye Methodology”). FERC permitted the continuation of the Buckeye Methodology for the Buckeye System in 1994, subject to FERC’s authority to cause Buckeye Pipe Line to terminate the Buckeye Methodology in the future. The Buckeye Methodology was an exception to the generic oil pipeline regulations that FERC issued under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (the “FERC Rules”), which rely primarily on the indexing methodology described above. On March 1, 2012, Buckeye Pipe Line filed to increase its rates under the Buckeye Methodology. On March 30, 2012, in response to a shipper protest, FERC issued an order (the “Show Cause Order”) in Docket No. IS 12-185-000 rejecting the rate increase and stating that FERC will review the continued efficacy of the Buckeye Methodology. The Show Cause Order, among other things, stated that FERC would review the continued efficacy of the unique program and directed Buckeye Pipe Line to show cause why it should not be required to discontinue the program on the Buckeye System and avail itself of the generic ratemaking methodologies used by other oil pipelines. The Show Cause Order did not impact any of the pipeline systems or terminals owned by Buckeye’s other operating subsidiaries. On February 22, 2013, FERC issued an order in Docket (“Dkt.”) No. IS12-185-000 et al. discontinuing the Buckeye Methodology, and affirming on rehearing its rejection of all rate increases filed in March 2012 (“Ratemaking Methodology Order”). The Ratemaking Methodology Order permitted Buckeye to retain its currently-filed rates in place, to make future rate changes under market-based ratemaking authority in markets previously found to be competitive by FERC, and to make future rate changes in other markets pursuant to the generic FERC ratemaking methods, which would include indexing. Subsequently, on March 28, 2013, Buckeye Pipe Line filed rate increases for services in the markets previously found to be competitive, and on May 30, 2013, Buckeye Pipe Line filed rate increases for most transportation services in the markets not previously found to be competitive; both sets of tariff filings became effective and are not subject to any FERC proceedings. On September 20, 2012, five airlines jointly filed a complaint in FERC Dkt. No. OR12-28-000 alleging that Buckeye Pipe Line’s rates for the transportation of jet fuel to the three major New York City area airports were unreasonable and should be reduced and should be subject to reparations for past shipments, and that the Buckeye Methodology should end with respect to that transportation; on October 10, 2012, Buckeye Pipe Line filed a motion to dismiss and answer opposing the complaint and its relief, and subsequent pleadings were filed by both the airlines and by Buckeye Pipe Line. On October 15, 2012, Buckeye Pipe Line filed an application in FERC Dkt. No. OR13-3-000 for authority to charge market-based rates for transportation to destinations in the New York City-area markets (the “Application”), because Buckeye Pipe Line lacked significant market power. On December 14, 2012, five airlines intervened and filed comments in opposition to the application in Dkt. No. OR13-3-000. On February 22, 2013, FERC issued an order setting the airline complaint in Dkt. No. OR12-28-000 for hearing, but holding the hearing in abeyance and setting the dispute for settlement procedures before a settlement judge. If FERC were to find these challenged rates to be in excess of costs and not otherwise protected by law, it could order Buckeye Pipe Line to reduce these rates prospectively and could order repayment to the complaining airlines of any past charges found to be in excess of just and reasonable levels for up to two years prior to the filing date of the complaint. On February 28, 2013, FERC also issued an order setting the Application for hearing, holding the hearing in abeyance and setting the dispute for settlement procedures before a settlement judge. If FERC were to approve the Application, Buckeye Pipe Line would be permitted prospectively to set these rates in response to competitive forces, and the basis for the airlines’ claim for relief in their OR12-28-000 complaint as to Buckeye Pipe Line’s future rates would be irrelevant prospectively. On March 8, 2013, an order was issued consolidating, for settlement purposes, the complaint proceeding in Dkt. No. OR12-28-000 with the proceeding regarding the Application for market-based rates in the New York City market in Dkt. No. OR13-3-000 and settlement discussions under the supervision of the FERC settlement judge are ongoing. The timing or outcome of final resolution of this matter cannot reasonably be determined at this time. 22 Table of Contents In addition to the risks described above, at any time shippers on any of our FERC-regulated pipelines have the right to challenge the application of the index to a pipeline’s rates or the underlying rates themselves as being unjust and unreasonable, subject to the FERC’s cost-of-service standards. Such shipper challenges may seek adjustments to our rates prospectively and, subject to limitations, for certain past periods. If a significant shipper challenge were to result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” or setting fuel economy or air quality standards could result in increased operating costs or reduced demand for the liquid petroleum products, natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that we transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our business. In recent years, federal authorities such as the EPA and various state regulatory bodies have increasingly sought to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” (“GHG”). Such regulation has targeted emissions from large industrial sources, such as factories, refineries and other manufacturing facilities, and for increasingly large classes of motor vehicles. While most of these currently effective regulations have not had a material effect on our operations, expansions of the existing regulations or any future laws or regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require us to incur additional costs to reduce emissions of GHG associated with our operations. The effect on our operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, measure and report our emissions, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates we charge, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations. In addition, laws or regulations regarding fuel economy, air quality or GHG gas emissions (for motor vehicles or otherwise) could include efficiency requirements or other methods of curbing carbon emissions that could adversely affect demand for the liquid petroleum products, natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that we transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our business. A significant decrease in demand for petroleum products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material environmental liabilities. Additionally, our costs could increase significantly, and we could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments: · environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or · claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from our operations are filed. 23 Table of Contents Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of liquid petroleum products may necessitate changes to our pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes. For instance, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees we may receive at our terminals. DOT and state-level regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our pipeline operations and natural gas storage operations are subject to regulation by the DOT and by some of the states in which we do business. Certain states, particularly California, have been reviewing pipeline safety regulations and increasing inspections and audits. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity testing to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas or commercially navigable waterways. In response to these regulations, we conduct pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis. Depending on the results of these integrity tests, we could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. In addition, any new regulations that are the result of PSA 2011 may affect our operations. Our BORCO and St. Lucia operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments. BORCO’s terminal facility and the St. Lucia terminal are located in The Bahamas and St. Lucia, respectively. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of international operations, including political, economic and regulatory developments and changes in laws or policies affecting our terminal operations, as well as changes in the policies of the United States affecting trade, taxation and investment in other countries. Any such developments or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our Caribbean operations increases the cost of doing business and could interfere with our ability to offer services or expose us to fines and penalties. These numerous laws and regulations include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials or agents. Although policies designed to fully ensure compliance with these laws are in place, employees, contractors, or agents may violate the policies. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer services in the Caribbean and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow. Our results could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of refined petroleum products. The Merchant Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities. If the values of refined petroleum products change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from these activities. Furthermore, when refined petroleum product prices increase rapidly and dramatically, we may be unable to promptly pass our additional costs to our customers, resulting in lower margins for us which could adversely affect our results of operations. Factors that could cause significant increases or decreases in commodity prices include changes in supply due to production constraints, weather, governmental regulations, and changes in consumer demand. It is our practice to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between commodity purchases, on the one hand, and expected commodity sales or future delivery obligations, on the other hand. Through these transactions, we seek to establish a margin for the commodity purchased by selling the same commodity for physical delivery to third-party users, such as wholesalers or retailers. While our hedging policies are designed to minimize commodity price risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply could expose us to risk of loss resulting from price changes if we are required to obtain alternative supplies to cover these sales transactions. In addition, we are also exposed to basis risks in our hedging activities that arise when a commodity, such as ultra low sulfur diesel, is purchased at one pricing index but must be hedged against another commodity type, such as heating oil, because of limitations in the markets for derivative products. We are also susceptible to basis risk created when we enter into financial hedges that are priced at a certain location, such as New York Harbor, but the sales or exchanges of the underlying commodity are at another location, such as Macungie, Pennsylvania, where prices and price changes might differ from the prices and price changes at the location upon which the hedging instrument is based. 24 Table of Contents A substantial amount of the petroleum products handled by BORCO are exported from Venezuela, which exposes us to political risks. A substantial portion of BORCO’s revenue relates to petroleum products exported from Venezuela. This involvement with products exported from Venezuela exposes BORCO to significant risks, including potential political and economic instability and trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States and other countries. BORCO depends on a limited number of customers for substantially all of its revenue, and the loss of any of them could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Storage revenue represented 76% of BORCO’s total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Currently, BORCO has a limited number of long-term storage customers, consisting of major oil companies, energy companies, physical traders and one national oil company. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 38% and 69% of BORCO’s storage revenue was derived from the top one and the top three customers, in aggregate, respectively. We expect BORCO to continue to derive substantially all of its total revenue from a small number of customers in the future. BORCO may be unsuccessful in renewing its storage contracts with its customers, and those customers may discontinue or reduce contracted storage from BORCO. If any of BORCO’s customers, in particular its top three customers, significantly reduces its contracted storage with BORCO and if BORCO is unable to find other storage customers on terms substantially similar to the terms under BORCO’s existing storage contracts, our business, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. Terrorist attacks or other security threats could adversely affect our business. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. In addition to the threat of terrors attacks, we face various other security threats, including cyber security threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our facilities, such as terminals and pipelines, and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to security threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Cyber security attacks in particular are evolving and include but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or otherwise disrupt, our pipeline control systems, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, including our pipeline control systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. During 2007, the Department of Homeland Security promulgated the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (“CFATS”) to regulate the security of facilities that handle certain chemicals. We have submitted to the Department of Homeland Security certain required information concerning our facilities in compliance with CFATS and, as a result, several of our facilities have been determined to be initially tiered as “high risk” by the Department of Homeland Security. Due to this determination, we are required to prepare a security vulnerability assessment and possibly develop and implement site security plans required by CFATS. The Department of Homeland Security began a concerted effort to enforce and further define the CFATS program in 2013, which we expect to continue. At this time, we do not believe that compliance with CFATS will have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents In addition to CFATS, our domestic operations are also subject to other laws and regulations promulgated and enforced by other components of the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Transportation. Our operations in the Bahamas and in St. Lucia are subject to similar security-related regulations. We believe that we currently comply in all material respects with security-related laws and regulations. However, this is an area of continued regulatory developments for our industry and as such, we may incur increased operating costs based on developments associated with these regulations and ongoing compliance. At this time, we do not believe that future compliance with these requirements will have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption. For example, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The scope and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations may vary. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Derivative reform mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act and rules and regulations under the Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to use certain derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated under the Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to use certain derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Act mandates significant changes to the over-the-counter derivative market. Among other changes, the Act and the regulations under the Act will: · require the clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; · require dealers and major participants to register with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities Exchange Commission or both, and require them to comply with capital, business conduct, reporting and recordkeeping requirements; · subject certain derivative transactions to margin requirements; · establish position limits for certain derivatives; and · require certain financial institutions to spin-off portions of their derivatives business. The rulemaking process under the Act has not been completed, and the timeframes for compliance with rules under the Act that are effective remains uncertain. Consequently, it is not possible at this time to determine the full effect that the Act and the rules and regulations adopted under the Act will have on our ability to continue to use the derivative products we currently utilize. As a result of the imposition of capital, clearing and exchange-trading requirements, the Act and the rules and regulations under the Act may limit the availability of certain derivative products and/or may increase the costs of such products. Additionally, the margin requirements applicable to certain derivative products may increase, resulting in such products becoming more expensive or uneconomical for us to use in our business. Any requirement to post more collateral to our counterparties in excess of what we currently post to collateralize our obligations may have a negative impact upon our liquidity. Position limits may be imposed upon certain derivative transactions, which may further restrict our ability to utilize these products. To the extent that our dealer counterparties are required to spin-off their derivatives activities to a separate entity, that new entity may not be as creditworthy as the current dealer counterparty and, as a result, we may have to increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties or curtail our dealings with that counterparty. The effects of the Act and the rules and regulations under the Act may also reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If, as a result of the Act and the rules and regulations under the Act, we reduce our use of certain derivatives, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. To the extent that we currently utilize exchange traded futures in our business, we do not anticipate that those products will be affected by the provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations under the Act described above. 26 Table of Contents Our business is exposed to customer credit risk, and we may not be able to fully protect ourselves against such risk. Our businesses are subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers. We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use letters of credit, prepayments and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our customers, counterparties and suppliers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. The marketing business in our Merchant Services segment enters into sales contracts pursuant to which customers agree to buy refined petroleum products from us at a fixed price on a future date. If our customers have not hedged their exposure to reductions in refined petroleum product prices and there is a price drop, then they could have a significant loss upon settlement of their fixed-price contracts with us, which could increase the risk of their nonpayment or nonperformance. In addition, we generally have entered into futures contracts to hedge our exposure under these fixed-price contracts to increases in refined petroleum product prices. If price levels are lower at settlement than when we entered into these futures contracts, then we will be required to make payments upon the settlement thereof. Ordinarily, this settlement payment is offset by the payment received from the customer pursuant to the associated fixed-price contract. We are, however, required to make the settlement payment under the futures contract even if a fixed-price contract customer does not perform. Nonperformance under fixed-price contracts by a significant number of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be insured or entitled to indemnification. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. Our operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers’ compensation and environmental insurance policies. In the future, however, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. Further, our environmental pollution coverage is subject to exclusions, conditions and limitations that could apply to a particular pollution claim or may not cover all claims or liabilities we incur. The contracts with our customers and other business partners involve risk-allocation and indemnification provisions. However, pursuant to these contracts we generally may not seek indemnification from a counterparty for liabilities, including those associated with the release of petroleum products, arising at a time in which we are in possession of the product owned by the counterparty. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, or insured at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, which may become more frequent as a result of climactic changes, could damage our facilities or disrupt our marine terminals or the operations of their customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow. The operations of our facilities, in particular our marine terminals, could be impacted by severe weather conditions, including hurricanes. Any such event could cause a serious business disruption or serious damage to our facilities, which could affect such facilities’ ability to provide services. Additionally, such events could impact our facilities’ customers, and they may be unable to utilize our services. In addition, many scientists believe that global climatic changes are occurring and are likely to lead to increased physical risks, including an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island erosion, risks of flooding and changes in weather conditions, such as precipitation, average temperatures and extreme weather conditions or storms. We own assets in communities that may be at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions, storms and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands. The portion of our assets that is located in these areas may be increasingly susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion. Existing weather-related risks and increased risks from additional future climate changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our unit price and our business. Interest rates on future debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. An increase in interest rates could also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our LP Units. Lower demand for our LP Units for any reason, including competition from other more attractive investment opportunities, would likely cause the trading price of our LP Units to decline. If we issue additional equity at a significantly lower price, material dilution to our existing unitholders could result. Additionally, we use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our credit facility. From time to time we use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt. In addition, interest rates on future debt offerings could be higher, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity price risk and any noncompliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. Our Merchant Services segment follow risk management practices that are designed to minimize commodity price risk, credit risk and operational risk. These practices and policies cannot, however, eliminate all price and price-related risks. Additionally, noncompliance with such practices and policies by our employees or agents may create additional risk. We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of these practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. Risks Relating to Partnership Structure We may sell additional units, diluting existing interests of unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue additional units and certain other equity securities without unitholder approval. There is no limit on the total number of units and other equity securities we may issue. When we issue additional units or other equity securities, the proportionate partnership interest of our existing unitholders will decrease. The issuance could negatively affect the amount of cash distributed to unitholders and the market price of the units. Issuance of additional units will also diminish the relative voting strength of the previously outstanding LP Units. 28 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner and its directors and officers. Our general partner and its directors and officers owe fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Provisions of our partnership agreement and partnership agreements for each of our operating partnerships, however, contain language limiting the liability of the general partner and its directors and officers to the unitholders for actions or omissions taken in good faith which do not involve gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, these partnership agreements grant broad rights of indemnification to the general partner and its directors, officers, employees and affiliates. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partnership interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were determined that we had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the unitholders as a group took any action pursuant to our partnership agreement that constituted participation in the “control” of our business, then the unitholders could be held liable under some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of distributions paid to the unitholder for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. 29 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our LP Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to holders of our LP Units, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our LP Units. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced and the value of our LP Units could be negatively impacted. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our LP Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our LP Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would have eliminated our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes based on the qualifying income requirement. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our LP Units. Any modification to U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the qualifying income requirement to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our LP Units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our LP Units and the price at which they trade. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. 30 Table of Contents Even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us, you will be required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from you with respect to that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our LP Units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your LP Units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those LP Units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your LP Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the LP Units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such LP Units at a price greater than your tax basis in those LP Units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because your amount realized includes your share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your LP Units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our LP Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in LP Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our LP Units. We treat each purchaser of LP Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the LP Units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the LP Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of LP Units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of LP Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our LP Units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 31 Table of Contents A unitholder whose LP Units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of LP Units) may be considered to have disposed of those LP Units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose LP Units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned LP Units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those LP Units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those LP Units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their LP Units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for U.S. federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder’s taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of investing in our LP Units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, you may be subject to other taxes, including non-U.S., state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file non-U.S., state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in a number of states in the United States. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. Additionally, we also own property and conduct business in Puerto Rico, The Bahamas and in St. Lucia. Under current law, you are not required to file a tax return or pay taxes in these jurisdictions. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or non-U.S. jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is a unitholder’s responsibility to file all non-U.S., federal, state and local tax returns. We have a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through a subsidiary that is a corporation for federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. The corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution would be further reduced. 32 Table of Contents Our operations in The Bahamas and St. Lucia are currently exempt from taxation. In addition, our operations in Puerto Rico are currently partially exempt from taxation. If our tax status in these non-U.S. jurisdictions were to change, such that we have more tax liability than we anticipate, our cash flow could be materially adversely affected. BORCO is currently exempt from income and property tax in The Bahamas pursuant to concessions granted under the Hawksbill Creek Agreement between the Government of the Bahamas and the Grand Bahama Port Authority. BORCO’s exemption from Bahamian taxation pursuant to the Hawksbill Creek Agreement is scheduled to expire in 2015. While we anticipate that the Bahamian governmental authorities will extend the concessions under the Hawksbill Creek Agreement, if the Bahamian governmental authorities do not extend the concessions or BORCO’s tax status in The Bahamas were to otherwise change, such that BORCO has more tax liability than we anticipate, our cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We are currently exempt from income taxes and duties in St. Lucia pursuant to concessions granted under the terms of our Tax Concession Agreement effective in 2007 and in effect for a minimum of 50 years. If our tax status in St. Lucia were to change, such that our operations have more tax liability than we anticipate, our cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to income taxes within the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and in 2002, we were granted partial exemption under the Tax Incentives Act of 1998 (the “Act”). Under the current terms of the grant, we are subject to an income tax rate of 4% to 7% on industrial development income. The grant also provides additional exemptions as follows: (i) 90% exempt from real and personal property taxes, (ii) 60% exempt from municipal taxes on industrial development income, and (iii) 100% exempt from excise taxes imposed under Subtitle C of the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, to the extent provided in Section 6(c) of the Act. This favorable tax rate is scheduled to expire in 2022. If our exemptions under the Act are not extended upon expiration or our tax status in Puerto Rico were to otherwise change, such that our operations have more tax liability than we anticipate, our cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 