Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. The Company believes these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause its actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and it is possible that certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could also potentially impair our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The global economic and financial market crisis of 2008 and 2009 has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The economic crisis has affected the financial health and stability of many of our customers, and, if the downturn trend continues, the impact to our customers may be severe. Most significantly, the economic turmoil had serious repercussions on the automotive industry, with the bankruptcy of automobile manufacturers or their suppliers. While the Company has reduced its reliance on revenue from the automotive industry over the past few years, it still earned approximately 18% of its revenue from this industry in 2009. Moreover, we may continue to see erosion in our revenue from our current customers, as these customers seek cost savings, scale back their operations and reduce their workforce. Given the extended economic uncertainty, we are unable to predict the full impact of this pressure on our revenue; however, it could have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The downturn may also lead to reduced gross margins and increased customer payment delays, defaults and/or increases in accounts receivable write-offs and our reserves for doubtful accounts. We are limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. Inasmuch as we provide potential customers with an effective means of reducing the cost of their IT support and/or making their IT support costs variable based upon utilization, our business is partially counter-cyclical. However, we have observed that certain current and prospective customers have slowed or stopped their outsourcing decision-making process. Further, potential customers are looking for immediate significant savings on the current cost of their IT support. While the Company may provide new customers with significant savings over the long-term, new customers have generally not been willing to pay all of the cost to transition their business to the Company. In light of transition costs, the ability of the Company to obtain new business and/or maintain its gross margin may be impaired. As a result of these factors, there are no assurances that the Company will be able to off-set the loss of revenue with new business. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions in the fourth quarter did and may in the future impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. See risk factors below for a discussion of additional risks to our liquidity resulting from the current crisis. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and business prospects. We face intense competition in all of our markets and for all of our services. Many competitors have a significant scale advantage over us, including more locations, greater financial resources, a larger client base, and greater name and brand recognition. These competitors may be willing to provide the same services that we provide at a loss or at a lower gross margin in order to attain other, more lucrative business from our customers. Over the course of 2009, a number of our customers terminated contracts with the Company in order to enter into service agreements with new suppliers that bundled a wider range of services than the Company was able to provide. Due to this competition, it may be difficult for us to retain our current customers or grow our revenue. The intense competition we face may result in our customers demanding reduced pricing from us in order for us to remain a preferred vendor. These pressures are likely to continue to increase due to the trend to move outsourcing services offshore to countries with lower labor costs, such as India and the Philippines. In response to these pressures, we acquired Onvaio Services Asia to provide services from Manila, the Philippines. We are also utilizing the services of Rainmaker Systems, Inc. to provide personnel, training and infrastructure to support our ITO business with Ford Motor Company, Visteon Corporation, and Deere & Company until we have established a larger facility. Our inability to continue to execute upon this strategy to address the globalization of the support services market could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain and grow our customer base. 12 In certain markets from where we provide our services, there is excess call center capacity, with high availability of labor. This excess capacity places additional price pressure for our services, as our competitors may be willing to lower their price for services below our standard margins in order to win business to fill the excess capacity. Accordingly, we may have to continue to lower the prices of our services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve quality, revenue and gross margin. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin, and therefore our profitability, could be adversely affected. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the process to win new business tends to be long. Our IT Outsourcing Services business models require significant changes to our customers’ business processes, and each customer may have significant internal political difficulties with local regions surrendering decentralized control of the support function. The decision makers are rarely involved in the early details of the selection process so there are often multiple sales efforts — initially to the team charged with selection and then to the Chief Information Officer/Chief Executive Officer/Board — that have to occur. Our results are dependent on our ability to successfully manage the sales process and strong competition in these markets. We are subject to contract risks inherent in our business. The great majority of our contracts, including our Ford Global SPOC contract, may be terminated without cause on short notice, often upon as little as 90-days notice. Terminations and non-renewals of major contracts could have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our IT Outsourcing Services business is billed on a managed service basis (in which the fee is fixed to perform specified services) as opposed to a time and materials basis. The onset of problems in our customers’ infrastructure, such as computer viruses, may require us to deploy additional resources to solve these problems. In many instances, we would not receive any additional revenue for the work performed, thereby adversely impacting our profitability. To the extent we provide service on a per-incident, per-call or per-minute basis, our financial performance is dependent upon the volume of service requests that we receive on the project. Some of our contracts do not contain minimum guaranteed volume, so we may not receive enough volume during a month to pay for our costs relating to a specific contract. The global economic downturn is making this problem more pronounced as our customers are not receiving their historical volume of service requests or the volume that they expected. Even where volume guarantees exist, we may not receive enough volume to make our expected profit for the month when we enforce the guarantee. Many of our contracts contain financial penalties for our failure to meet the contractual performance service levels. For many potential reasons, including volume changes higher than anticipated, we may not be able to meet the service levels. In the United States, we are able to manage this risk through changes in our staffing, but our European entities do not have as much flexibility in staffing largely due to labor laws. As the complexity of our service delivery increases and we provide services to a single customer from multiple locations, our ability to manage service levels becomes more difficult. Due to the competitive market, we often must agree to a price for providing service based primarily on information provided to us by our prospective customer. Sometimes this information is not correct, and it is difficult to either properly design the project to meet service levels or increase our price to account for the incorrect information. Our inability to accurately estimate the resources and related expenses required for a project, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with their terms, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 We are subject to risks inherent in the provision of technology services to governmental entities. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from U.S. Federal Government contracts that typically are awarded through competitive processes and span a one-year base period and one or more option years. When the U.S. Federal Government budget is under pressure, as it is at the present time, it may be difficult to develop business with new customers and grow or maintain contracts with existing customers. The unexpected termination or non-renewal of one or more of our significant contracts could result in significant revenue shortfalls. Our clients generally have the right not to exercise the option periods. In addition, our contracts typically contain provisions permitting an agency to terminate the contract on short notice, with or without cause. Following the expiration of the contract term, if the client requires further services of the type provided in the contract, there is frequently a competitive re-bidding process. We may not win any particular re-bid or be able to successfully bid on new contracts to replace those that have been terminated. Many of the systems we support involve managing and protecting information involved in the U.S. Department of Defense and other sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, could result in negative publicity and could prevent us from having further access to such critically sensitive systems or other similarly sensitive areas for other governmental clients. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the policy limits that we have for “errors and omissions” insurance or coverage may not apply. Some of our U.S. Federal Government contracts require us, and certain of our employees, to maintain security clearances. If we lose or are unable to obtain security clearances, the client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular engagement, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the engagement, which could negatively impact our operating results. U.S. Federal Government agencies routinely audit government contracts. These agencies review a contractor’s performance on its contract, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. An audit could result in an adjustment to our revenue because any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while improper costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Federal Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We must comply with and are affected by U.S. Federal Government regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These regulations affect how we do business with our clients and subcontractors, including mandating the percentage of business contracted to us that we must subcontract to small and minority businesses. These regulations may impose added costs on our business. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Federal Government. Further, the U.S. Federal Government may reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting methods relating to the General Services Administration schedule or other government-wide contract vehicles. To the extent that we are unable to successfully comply with these regulations, our Government Technology Services business could be negatively impacted. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent upon the efforts, direction and guidance of our executive leadership team. The loss of key management personnel or our inability to attract, retain or replace key management personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is very labor intensive. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled technical, clerical and administrative employees. We can experience high turnover of our personnel and are often required to recruit and train replacement personnel as a result of a changing and expanding work force. Qualified personnel, especially in Washington, D.C., are in high demand. Accordingly, we may experience increased compensation costs due to the need to improve compensation or the need to train new staff as a result of turnover. These increased costs may not be offset through either increased productivity or higher customer pricing. Moreover, no assurances can be given that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees in the future, especially when we need to expand our services in a short time period. While we attempt to implement a career path model where our service desks are located, thereby enabling our employees to move to new jobs that require higher skill levels and increased pay, this objective is difficult to achieve. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, or increases in wages or other costs of attracting, training or retaining qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to attract and retain qualified sales and customer service management personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our organic growth targets. Our business involves the delivery of complex services over a distributed IT environment. It takes time to train new sales people in our business and for them to build a pipeline of opportunities. In November 2009, the Company reorganized its Americas and EMEA sales forces into a global sales force. To the extent the Company replaces members of its current sales force; the Company anticipates that the new sales persons will have limited effectiveness during 2010. Inasmuch as we strive to grow existing accounts by expanding our services to new locations or adding new services to our solution, we rely heavily on our client service managers to grow our revenue. In the past year, we have been working to add customer service management personnel. Our inability to find the right personnel and train them quickly may have an adverse effect on our ability to appropriately manage our customers and meet our organic growth targets. Our revenue and gross profit may suffer if we are not able to maintain our relationship with significant customers for whom we have contracts up for renewal or we are unable to replace revenue lost as a result of recent contract losses. During 2010, we have a significant volume of contracts pending renewal that comprise approximately 11.8% of our 2009 revenue. We believe that we are well-positioned to renew most of these contracts due to our overall value proposition and customer relationships, but there can be no assurance in this regard. Any significant loss of business as a result of these renewals or failure to replace revenue lost for contract non-renewals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. See also our discussion below of risks inherent in providing Government Technology Services. Capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The general disruption in the U.S. capital markets has impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Our ability to access the capital markets (or any other source of funds) may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. 15 The Company’s economic condition and/or credit market developments may reduce availability of credit under our credit agreement. Due to the current volatile state of the credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lender(s) fail to honor their legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in the current environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. As a result of the economic downturn, the Company’s economic performance has declined, and this decline may affect the Company’s ability to maintain its compliance with the financial covenants set forth in accessing the credit agreement. As a result of the goodwill impairment taken by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company was no longer in compliance with its financial covenants, and it was required to renegotiate the terms of its credit agreement. As a result of this renegotiation, its cost of borrowing increased and the size of its facility decreased. To the extent that the Company would like to access the credit facility for purposes other than working capital or is further unable to meet the amended financial covenants, the Company anticipates that its banks will renegotiate the terms of the loan. Further, our credit agreement has terms favorable to the Company, and any renegotiation of the financial covenants will further reduce the Company’s flexibility under the credit agreement. Although we believe that our operating cash flow, access to capital markets and existing credit facilities will give us the ability to satisfy our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months, the failure of the lender under our credit facility may impact our ability to finance our operating or investing activities. Implementation of our strategy to grow through complementary business acquisitions is subject to numerous risks and difficulties. Our business strategy includes seeking to make complementary business acquisitions. In order to pursue a growth by acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for these transactions, complete and pay for these transactions and fully integrate them into our ongoing operations. Due to the tightening capital markets, our strategy may be delayed or changed. Moreover, integration issues are complex, time-consuming and potentially expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. Integration issues include, but are not limited to, the diversion of management’s attention, the loss of key business and/or personnel from the acquired company, unanticipated events, legal liabilities, dilutive effect of the issuance of additional securities and possible impairment of acquired intangible assets. Moreover, the financial risks of acquisitions continue after the integration of the acquired company. If the implicit value of the business declines, there could be a non-cash, partial or full write-off of the acquired intangible assets, including goodwill, attributed to the acquisition. Acquisitions also may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Any of these possible difficulties associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inasmuch as the Company has a market capitalization lower than its current book value, the Company will need to continue to perform interim impairment testing under Accounting Standards Codification 350, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other", ("ASC 350"), which may require the Company to record a goodwill impairment charge. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1 of each year. Additionally during the year ended December 31, 2008, as a result of recent economic events, coupled with the conclusion of certain customer contracts, and the decline in our stock price, we updated our annual goodwill impairment testing from October 1, 2008 to perform an interim impairment test as of December 31, 2008. During our 2009 impairment test, we determined that goodwill was impaired for our Government Solutions and SQM reporting units. We did not incur an impairment charge relating to our goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2008 or December 31, 2008. If future results for the Company’s other assets for which it holds goodwill are not consistent with our current assumptions and estimates, we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges at a later date. Please see Note 4 – Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further information. 16 We are subject to numerous risks relating to our international operations. We operate businesses in many countries outside the United States, located throughout Europe and Asia. As part of our business strategy, we will continue to expand our global reach, to deliver services from additional locations in the Asia Pacific region and from Central and South America. As a result, we expect to continue expansion through start-up operations and acquisitions in additional countries. Expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional countries will require management attention and financial resources. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including the following: · changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, terrorism and religious extremism and unanticipated military conflicts; · currency fluctuations, particularly in the European euro, which contribute to variations in the sale of services in impacted jurisdictions and also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; · longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; · local labor conditions and regulations; · differences in cultures and languages, which can impair our ability to work as an effective global team; · differing political and social systems; · changes in the regulatory or legal environment; · differing technology standards or customer requirements; · difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; · changes in tax laws in international jurisdictions; and · natural and man-made disasters. To the extent we are not able to manage our international operations successfully, our business could be adversely affected and revenue or earnings could be reduced. There are substantial risks associated with expanding our labor force into offshore markets. The outsourcing industry trend to move business toward offshore markets could result in excess operating capacity in the United States and Belgium. Moreover, there are no assurances that we will be able to successfully expand into and conduct business in offshore markets. The success of any offshore operation is subject to numerous contingencies, some of which are beyond management control, including general and regional economic conditions, prices for our services, competition, changes in regulation and other risks. Any failure in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion above regarding the risks associated with international operations. When a number of service providers enter these offshore locations, the competition for employees increases, causing turnover and increasing labor costs. In these circumstances, we bear the risk of inflation, especially labor inflation, which could result in our costs increasing faster than we can improve technician productivity. While the economic downturn has reduced potential wage inflation, the competitive trend may accelerate when economic conditions recover. Several of our customers are attracted to the reduction in the cost of our services that they may obtain as a result of delivery from an offshore location. They also wish to enter into contracts that tend to provide them with predictable costs, while shifting the risk of volume fluctuations to us. Accordingly, we enter into long-term contracts to provide monthly services with a price that does not adjust significantly with inflation. Our inability to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 We are subject to currency risks as a result of our international operations. We serve an increasing number of our U.S.-based customers using service desks in Europe. Some of these contracts are priced in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of our costs are incurred in Romanian ron or the European euro. In this way, we are subject to “operational” foreign currency exchange risk. Although we enter into foreign exchange contracts from time to time to limit potential foreign currency exposure, we do not fully hedge this exposure. As a result, unfavorable shifts in exchange rates may reduce our gross profit on these contracts. In addition, we are subject to “financing” foreign currency exchange risk. In the normal course of our business, our operating subsidiaries will loan funds to each other. This creates a natural foreign currency gain or loss for the financing counterparty subsidiary which operates in a currency different from that in which the loan is denominated. This gain or loss is necessarily realized in our financial statements in unpredictable character (gain or loss) and amount. Our inability to properly manage projects and capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to profit from the global trend toward outsourcing depends in part on how effectively we manage our service desk capacity. There are several factors and trends that have intensified the challenge of resource management. In order to either create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects or to manage the risk of labor inflation, we must consider opening new service desk facilities. The opening or expansion of a service desk facility may result, at least in the short term, in idle capacity until any new or expanded program is fully implemented. We periodically assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our service desk facilities. As a result, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate, close or partially close under-performing service desk facilities in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal utilization of our service desk capacity. If we do not effectively manage our capacity, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. With the addition of our Philippines service desk facility; we continue to increase the amount of business that we are performing for the same customer from more than one location. Multisite and multilingual delivery increases the complexity of the service provided including, but not limited to, managing call volume and resources. Our inability to manage the different cultures and personnel to deliver consistent quality from different sites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers often ask us to expand our geographic footprint and the languages that we support, while reducing the cost of our support. However, as our profitability is dependent on managing the utilization of resources, the addition of languages or additional locations can impair our profitability. Moreover, in order for us to keep our costs in line with the marketplace, our future success will be dependent upon our ability to find cost-effective locations in which to operate internationally. There is no assurance that we will be able to find cost-effective locations, obtain favorable lease terms, develop subcontractor relationships, establish facilities and train a workforce in a timely or economic manner. Further, our work in the IT Consulting and Systems Integration business segment requires the efficient management of human resources. There is a risk that we may not have sold new business to replace projects as they are completed. Because we may not be able to maintain a steady or increasing demand for our services, we could suffer fluctuations in our revenue, the number of employees and results of operations. 18 We are increasingly selling our services through channel partners and our inability to effectively manage a channel partner or customer relationship may have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are focused on developing relationships with channel partners to help us sell our services. These channel and alliance partners may be large companies with complementary services that may hire us to provide services to their customers. In these relationships, we generally do not control the customer relationship. Accordingly, we are dependent upon the prime contractor to appropriately manage our service delivery for the end customer. The failure of the prime contractor to do so can lead to situations where projects are delayed, modified or terminated for reasons outside our control. The channel partners may be in a different business or we may be their customer, and therefore we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with the best value for our purchases. Our inability to manage these relationships could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our inability to effectively manage our regional subcontractors who provide service to our customers may have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to meet the global needs of our customers, the Company currently subcontracts service to Rainmaker Systems, Inc. in the Philippines, and it anticipates providing support to its customers by subcontracting services from one or more other vendors in South America. In this way, we are able to expand globally, without the risk and expense of launching operations in new locations. The subcontractors are providing support to major customers of the Company, including Ford Motor Company, Deere & Company and Visteon Corporation. However by relying upon subcontractors, our contract risk with our customers is heightened. We lose some control over the performance of the services because the customer is being serviced by employees of another company. The company selected to serve as subcontractor does not necessarily have interests aligned with the interests of the Company. For example, the subcontractors often provide the same type of services as TechTeam, and we often compete for the same customers. To the extent the size of the business subcontracted is small, the subcontractor may not place enough emphasis on providing quality service. Accordingly, managing the business interests of the respective companies is one of the risks of implementing a business strategy relying on subcontractors. Our inability to manage these relationships could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We are highly dependent upon technology, and our inability to keep pace with technological advances in our industry, or our failure or inability to protect and maintain our existing systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop IT solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in the IT industry, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in adequately addressing these developments on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. We need to continually make significant investments, with ever increasing regularity, in sophisticated and specialized communications and computer technology to meet our clients’ needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to invest in and develop new and enhanced technology in shorter intervals and on a timely basis to maintain our competitiveness. Significant capital expenditures may be required to keep our technology up-to-date. There can be no assurance that any of our information systems will be adequate to meet our future needs or that we will be able to incorporate new technology to enhance and develop our existing services. Moreover, investments in technology, including future investments in upgrades and enhancements to software, may not necessarily maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to anticipate and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Our inability to effectively keep pace with continuing changes in the IT industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Moreover, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, or that of our customers, and misappropriate confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. If this were to occur, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. Moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for information technology outsourcing services or other information technology solutions, or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design and manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our systems. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses, worms and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our service desk facilities and our information databases against damages that may be caused by fire and other disasters, power failures, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and other emergencies. The temporary or permanent loss of such systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding precautions we have taken to protect ourselves and our clients from events that could interrupt delivery of our services, there can be no assurance that a fire, natural disaster, human error, equipment malfunction or inadequacy, computer virus, firewall breach or other event would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide support services to our clients. Moreover, as we deliver services from offshore locations, the risks related to interruption of telecommunications increases. The loss of a critical supplier due to the current economic crisis or any interruption to our data or voice telecommunications networks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increases in business costs. Health care and other benefit costs continue to increase. Our business is labor intensive, and therefore we have exposure to these increasing health care and other benefit costs. While we attempt to compensate for these escalating costs in our business cost models and customer pricing and have passed along some of these increased costs to our employees, we generally have long-term, fixed-price pricing agreements with our customers. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that we will be able to recover increases in our costs through increased service fees. We may be subject to risks associated with terrorist acts or other events beyond our control. Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to TechTeam, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our use of intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and suppliers and limit distribution of proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use of such information and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our ability to enforce our trademarks, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. Our intellectual property may be subject to even greater risk in foreign jurisdictions, as it is often more difficult and costly to enforce our rights in foreign jurisdictions. Moreover, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and intellectual property developed for us by our employees or contractors in foreign jurisdictions may not be as protected as if created in the United States. 20 Although we believe our services and/or software do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all of the rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business, we are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums of money in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses of the intellectual property that may be the subject of asserted infringement. We may experience volatility in our stock price that could affect your investment. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control including, but not limited to: · the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock; · general economic conditions; · developments in the industries or markets in which we operate; · acquisitions and divestitures; · announcements by competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; · speculation in the press or investment community; · sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by insiders; · any dilutive effect from stock offerings; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · regulatory actions or litigation; and · departures of our key personnel. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by our inability to meet analyst and investor expectations or failure to achieve projected financial results. Any failure to meet such expectations or projected financial results, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Volatility in our stock price may result in your inability to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies’ securities. If any such litigation is instigated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Item 