ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities, involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before purchasing our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations and adversely affect our prospects. The order in which such risks are presented does not necessarily reflect the relative importance of such risks or the likelihood that any of the events or circumstances described below will occur or exist. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We have experienced losses to date, and we anticipate that we will continue to experience losses through at least 2012, which means that we will have to raise significant additional financing during the first half of 2010 in order to continue our business operations. The opinion from our independent auditors as of December 31, 2009, stated that there is substantial doubt at December 31, 2009, about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are a company that has been pursuing an aggressive and novel business approach to the construction and operation of renewable energy facilities and the production of renewable natural gas. As noted below, our sole operating business, Microgy, is in the early stages of its development. As a result, we have a history of losses. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $36,112,000 including a non-cash write-down for the impairment of certain assets of $26,070,000. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $22,996,000 which includes a non-cash, non-recurring expense for the impairment of goodwill of $4,913,000. For the year ended December 31, 2007 we incurred a net loss from continuing operations of $11,161,000. We expect to continue to incur losses, reduce our earnings or, as the case may be, add to our deficit as we seek to further develop our business. We currently expect that these ongoing losses will adversely affect our financial condition through at least 2012. Future losses are likely to continue unless we successfully implement our business plan. As a result of these losses, we anticipate that we will, in all likelihood, have to rely on external financing for most of our capital and operational requirements. We will need to raise substantial financing in order to fund ongoing general and administrative expenses associated with our corporate overhead, debt service and dividend requirements to continue as a going concern. While we have raised $1,100,000 in cash to date from the contribution of certain assets to a joint venture, these funds will not be sufficient to meet our operating needs during the first half of 2010. We currently have no commitments for any additional financing. We cannot assure you such financing will be available on reasonable terms or in a timely fashion, or at all, particularly in the current economic environment, in which capital raising activities are especially challenging. Our inability to obtain adequate financing would likely result in the need to cease our business operations and would materially impair the value of your investment in our securities. As a result of our failure to make certain payments, we and our subsidiaries are currently in default under various obligations, and we cannot determine the remedies our creditors may exercise. We failed to make the payment in respect of the January 1, 2010 interest payment on our 14% Convertible Notes due January 1, 2014, referred to as the 14% convertible notes. In addition, we failed to make certain payments to Xergi, A/S, referred to as Xergi, under our Cooperation Agreement, dated April 23, 2009, referred to as the Cooperation Agreement, among us, our subsidiary, Microgy, Inc., Xergi and Danish Biogas Technology, A/S, referred to as DBT. Our subsidiary, Microgy Holdings, LLC, referred to as Microgy Holdings, failed to make the payments in respect to the December 1, 2009 interest payments on the remaining Texas tax-exempt bonds and California tax-exempt bonds on which it and its subsidiaries are obligated from its own funds. In 13 Table of Contents addition, our subsidiary, Microgy Grand Island, LLC, failed to make payments in respect to the December 1, 2009 interest payments on the Nebraska tax-exempt bonds on which it is obligated from its own funds, and has other creditors which remain unpaid. We have been given notice of default under the indenture for the 14% convertible notes, but neither the holders nor the trustee thereunder have taken any further action with respect to such default. We have been given notice of default under the indentures for the Texas and California tax-exempt bonds, and the holders of the Texas and California tax-exempt bonds have accelerated the obligations associated with the bonds in full, but have not taken any further action to enforce their rights in any collateral. We have not been given notice of default under the indenture for the Nebraska tax-exempt bonds, and neither the holders nor the trustee thereunder have taken any action with respect to such default. Finally, we have been given notice of material breach of the Cooperation Agreement, but neither Xergi nor DBT has taken any further action with respect to such breach. We currently have outstanding past due and unpaid obligations of $560,000 in respect of the 14% convertible notes, $23,088,000 in respect of the Texas tax-exempt bonds plus accrued interest from December 1, 2009, $8,356,000 in respect of the California tax-exempt bonds plus accrued interest from December 1, 2009, and $300,000 in respect of payments owed to Xergi under the Cooperation Agreement, and $1,334,000 in dividends on our series A preferred stock, among other amounts owed to other creditors. We currently do not have sufficient funds to pay any of these amounts. We cannot predict what actions our creditors may take. Relevant agreements with Texas and California bondholders, entered into prior to the acceleration of obligations underlying the bonds, provide for cross-collateralization of all of the assets associated with our Huckabay Ridge facility, our Rio Leche and Cnossen projects in Texas, and our Riverdale and Hanford projects in California. The Nebraska tax-exempt bonds are secured by the assets associated with our Grand Island facility. Our other obligations are unsecured. The holders of the Texas, California and Nebraska tax-exempt bonds may take steps to foreclose on their collateral, although to date none has done so. Our creditors could also seek to initiate involuntary proceedings under the United States Bankruptcy Code, or we may determine that it is in our best interest to initiate such proceedings voluntarily. While we are in discussions with some of these creditors and other parties with respect to these obligations, we cannot assure you that any such discussions will result in a favorable resolution of these obligations. The foregoing circumstances, and the actions our creditors may elect to take with respect to them, are likely to result in a material adverse effect on our business as well as a material impairment of the value of your investment in our securities. Our sole operating business, Microgy, has limited operating history from which to evaluate its business and products. Our sole operating business, Microgy, was formed in 1999 and remains in the early stages of its development. Microgy is developing facilities that use environmentally friendly anaerobic digestion and other technologies to produce biogas from animal and organic wastes. Although Microgy has developed and operates three single digester facilities in Wisconsin and the multi-digester Huckabay Ridge facility, Microgy still has limited experience in the construction and operation of multiple digester facilities such as those Microgy is currently constructing or intends to construct, and limited experience in gas conditioning or the sale of gas as a commodity. In addition, Microgy experienced challenges during the startup and initial operation of the Huckabay Ridge facility that resulted in outages for corrective measures. We took advantage of such an outage to complete comprehensive upgrades to process-instrumentation and controls, the gas conditioning system, and the gas-collection system in order to achieve anticipated performance levels. While we gained valuable knowledge as to our processes and incorporated the lessons learned into future projects, we cannot assure you that similar challenges will not be encountered with respect to future facilities. Because of Microgy’s limited experience, there is a risk that Microgy may never be profitable. Microgy cannot predict when any facility will be completed, what Microgy’s costs will be or, consequently, whether Microgy or any facility developed by Microgy will be profitable. Development of Microgy’s facilities is an inherently risky activity, subject to significant uncertainties and a lengthy development cycle. Uncertainties and risks include those relating to costs and availability of supplies and 14 Table of Contents labor, costs and quality of facility components and installation services, fluctuations in the prices available for the sale of facility output and timing of completion of construction and commencement of commercial operations. Furthermore, obtaining the large number of agreements, permits and approvals necessary to develop, install, operate and manage any of Microgy’s facilities, as well as to market the energy and other co-products and to provide necessary related resources and services, involves a long development cycle and decision-making process. Microgy is required to enter into or obtain some or all of the following in connection with the development of its facilities: • Off-take interconnection agreements; • Site agreements; • Supply contracts; • Design/build or other construction-related agreements; • Off-take agreements for gas produced; • Power sales contracts for facilities dedicated to the generation of electricity; • Agreements for the sale of greenhouse gas sequestration credits or other tradable environmental attributes; • Various co-product sales agreements; • Waste disposal agreements; • Environmental and other permits and licenses; • Government approvals; and • Financing commitments required for the successful completion of facilities under consideration. Microgy’s failure to accomplish any of these objectives could materially increase the cost, or prevent the successful completion of, development or operation of facilities and incur the loss of any investment made. Many of these objectives are dependent upon decisions by third parties. Delays in such parties’ decision-making process are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our development costs, cost of operations, receipt of revenue and revenue projections. We expect that, in some cases, it may take a year or more to obtain decisions on permits and approvals and to negotiate and close these complex agreements. Such delays could harm our operating results and financial condition. As a result of the foregoing uncertainties we are unable to project with certainty Microgy’s organizational, structural, staffing or other overhead costs, the construction or operating costs associated with any facility, or whether any facility, or Microgy as a whole, will generate a profit. If Microgy fails to generate a profit, your investment in our securities will be materially, adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain needed financing for Microgy’s facilities, the value of our Microgy investment may be reduced significantly. Because we have not yet generated sufficient positive cash flow, and do not expect to do so until at least 2012, we do not have adequate funds on hand to complete construction of the facilities we currently have planned. We are seeking and will require corporate, project or group financing to fund the cost of any development we may decide to pursue for Microgy’s facilities. This financing may be difficult or impossible for us to obtain particularly in the current economic environment, in which capital raising activities are especially challenging. If we are unable to obtain such financing, the value of our Microgy investment may be reduced significantly, and we may be required to substantially curtail our business or completely cease construction or operation of any facilities. The availability of additional financing will depend on prospective lenders’ or investors’ review of our financial capabilities as well as specific facilities and other factors, including their 15 Table of Contents assessment of our ability to construct and manage each facility successfully and the current state of the economy. Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain the required financing, we will have to reduce the number of projects we construct and may even have to curtail or cease our business operations, which would have a material adverse effect on your investment in our securities. If Microgy is unable to obtain sufficient manure and substrate for its facilities at an acceptable cost, such facilities, and Microgy as a whole, will likely not be profitable. The performance of Microgy’s facilities is dependent on the availability of large quantities of animal manure and substrates derived from animal and other organic waste resources to produce raw energy and meet performance standards in the generation of renewable natural gas. A substantial portion of the gas production of Microgy’s facilities is derived from the co-digestion contribution enabled by substrate. While Microgy has or is expected to have agreements relating to the supply of manure and substrate, these agreements may not cover all of Microgy’s requirements for such resources, and Microgy will be subject to the ability of the counterparties to such agreements to perform their obligations thereunder. Lack of manure or substrate or adverse changes in the nature or quality of such waste resources or the cost to supply or transport them would seriously affect the ability of Microgy’s facilities to produce gas at profitable levels and, consequently, its ability to develop and finance facilities and to operate efficiently and generate income. As a result, its revenue and financial condition would be materially and negatively affected. We cannot assure you that the waste resources Microgy’s facilities require will be available in the future in acceptable quantity or quality, for free or at prices that make them affordable or accessible. Microgy is expected to derive a significant portion of its revenues from the sale of renewable natural gas; as a result it may have some exposure to volatility in the commodity price of natural gas. Microgy is expected to derive a significant portion of its revenues from the sale of renewable natural gas. Microgy typically enters into medium to long-term off-take arrangements for the gas produced by its facilities as part of the planning and development of such facilities, and may enter into other hedging arrangements, in order to mitigate the associated commodity price risk. Furthermore, our subsidiary, Microgy Holdings, is required by the terms of its tax-exempt bonds to maintain certain gas price protection arrangements for specified periods of time. We believe that these arrangements will be considered normal purchases and sales and will not be subject to derivative accounting. However, there may be times when such off-take and hedging arrangements expire or otherwise terminate before new arrangements are put in place, and such arrangements are subject to the creditworthiness of the counterparties to them. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such risk management vehicles will always be available or successful. Because renewable natural gas commands a premium over, but still tracks prices for, conventional natural gas, Microgy will be exposed, to the extent not covered by long-term contracts, to market risk with respect to the commodity pricing of conventional natural gas. Historically, natural gas prices have been volatile and Microgy expects such volatility to continue. We expect revenues from sales of greenhouse gas sequestration credits and other environmental attributes, but the market for such attributes is nascent and may not develop in a manner that allows us to profit from the sales of such credits to the level projected, or at all. The multiple digester facilities that we plan to implement through Microgy Holdings and our other subsidiaries are expected to produce greenhouse gas sequestration credits and other marketable environmental attributes. While there exist trading markets for these attributes, and additional trading markets or other commercial avenues may develop, the existing trading markets are new and experience thin trading and price volatility, which can hinder sales of credits and make their value unpredictable. The quantity of credits that may be generated are a function of the carbon credit offset characteristics as determined by protocols used to document and verify the carbon offset value. These protocols continue to evolve, and changes in these protocols could substantially diminish further carbon credit eligibility. Furthermore, much of the participation in these markets is voluntary, in response to social and environmental concerns, as opposed to being driven by regulatory 16 Table of Contents requirements. While many states and the federal government are pursuing or are considering carbon emissions limits and related initiatives that may spur greater development of and participation in these markets, we are unable to determine the effect of these initiatives on these markets. We cannot assure you that these trading markets will develop further, or even that they will continue to exist. In addition, many of our agreements with our business partners and investors require us to share such credits or any revenues we derive from sales of such credits, and agreements we negotiate in the future may also include such requirements. As a result of the foregoing, we may recognize significantly smaller revenues than we anticipate from the sale of greenhouse gas sequestration credits or other environmental attributes. In connection with financial closings on projects, we have pledged all of our interests in our facilities in Texas and California as security for the loans relating to Microgy Holdings’ tax-exempt bond financings in those jurisdictions, and our subsidiary, Microgy Grand Island, LLC, has entered into a financing lease with respect to the Grand Island facility. We are in default on these loans and the bondholders could seek to initiate foreclosure proceedings on these assets. We have invested, and expect to invest, substantial funds and resources in the Huckabay Ridge facility and the other multi-digester, renewable natural gas facilities in Texas, California and Nebraska. In connection with initial financial closings on the projects, we pledged all of our interest in the Huckabay Ridge facility, as well as the Rio Leche, Cnossen and Mission facilities in Texas as collateral security for the loan to our subsidiary, Microgy Holdings, from the Gulf Coast Industrial Development Authority of Texas relating to the $60 million tax-exempt bond financing we completed in November 2006. The outstanding principal amount of these bonds has been reduced to $23,088,711. We pledged all of our interest in the Riverdale and Hanford facilities in California as collateral security for the loan to our subsidiary, Microgy Holdings, from the California Statewide Communities Development Authority relating to the $62.425 million tax-exempt bond financing we completed in September 2008. The outstanding amount of these bonds has been reduced to $8,355,699. Both the Texas and California bonds are now in default and have been accelerated. While these loans are non-recourse to Environmental Power, in certain circumstances Environmental Power is required to provide at least 20% of the construction costs of these facilities, as well as to cover any cost overruns in construction and certain other significant costs, which if applicable would represent a substantial investment of corporate resources. Because Microgy Holdings is in default on these loans, bondholders by foreclosure proceedings could seek to seize some or all of our investment in the Texas and California facilities, which if successful would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as your investment in our securities. In addition, our subsidiary, Microgy Grand Island, LLC, has entered into a $7.0 million sale and leaseback transaction with the City of Grand Island, Nebraska in connection with its tax-exempt bond financing in Nebraska to finance the construction of the Grand Island facility, and has guaranteed the City’s obligations under the tax-exempt bonds. Environmental Power has equity contribution and support obligations with respect to the Grand Island facility that are substantially similar to those under the Texas and California financings. Microgy Grand Island is in default on its guarantee obligations to the City of Grand Island, and we may lose some or all of our investment in the Grand Island facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Microgy faces competition in the renewable energy market as well as for the resources necessary to operate its facilities. Microgy plans to generate revenue from the development and ownership of facilities that market renewable “green” energy in addition to providing pollution control features to the agricultural and food industry markets. Microgy’s “green” competitors include other energy producers using biomass combustion, biomass anaerobic digestion, geothermal, solar, wind, new hydro and other renewable sources. These companies represent a significant class of competitors because they will compete with Microgy for sale of marketable renewable energy credits and participation in various renewable portfolios and other programs. 17 Table of Contents Competition in the traditional energy business from electric utilities and other energy companies is well established, with many substantial entities having multi-billion dollar, multi-national operations. Many of these companies are beginning to compete in the alternative fuels and renewable energy business with the growth of the industry and the advent of many new technologies. Larger companies, due to their greater financial and other resources, will be better positioned than Microgy to develop new technologies and to install existing or more advanced renewable energy facilities, which could harm Microgy’s business. Microgy also faces many forms of competition with respect to the resources required to operate its facilities. Such competition includes other providers of pollution control, including environmental engineers, providers of pollution control systems, private companies, public companies, associations, cooperatives, government programs, foreign companies, and educational pilot programs. Furthermore, there are many companies that offer anaerobic digester systems. A number of these competitors have more mature businesses and have successfully installed anaerobic digester systems in the United States. Microgy may be forced to compete with any of these competitors for access to equipment, construction supplies, skilled labor for the construction and operation of its facilities and the supplies of manure and substrate required to operate its facilities. In addition, Microgy may also have to compete for access to substances that make desirable substrates with other users of these substances, such as recyclers of waste grease and producers of biodiesel and other biofuels. The effect of such competition could be reflected in higher costs associated with obtaining access to these resources, as well as an insufficient supply of these resources for the profitable operation of Microgy’s facilities. If Microgy cannot obtain and maintain these supplies, or cannot obtain or maintain them at reasonable costs, the profitability of Microgy’s business will be adversely affected. Extreme weather events may have a material adverse effect on the operation on our facilities. Microgy’s facilities and sites are sensitive to extreme weather events. For instance, the anaerobic digestion process requires temperatures within a certain band, and extreme cold or heat may negatively impact the process or increase operating costs as a result of the need to counter such temperatures. Also, our sites contain retention ponds that have been designed with ample capacity to collect and retain storm water run-off, but, despite applying best maintenance practices, that capacity on rare occasions can be strained by severe rainfall. Thus, in August 2008, a 25-year record rainfall event caused a storm water retention pond breach and spill that required cleanup of a dry creek bed and reporting to the local environmental authorities, and earlier this year heavy rains saturated neighboring properties at Huckabay Ridge and thus significantly limited the ability of neighboring properties to utilize the plant’s effluent, which we distribute pursuant to a commercial-fertilizer registration issued by the Texas State Chemist. While Microgy considers typical local weather conditions in the design of its facilities and maintains appropriate insurance to mitigate associated risks to the extent commercially feasible, Microgy cannot anticipate all unusual weather events, and such events have had and may in the future have a material adverse effect on the operation of its facilities. It is possible that we may expend large sums of money on individual projects to bring Microgy’s products to market and that the revenue that Microgy derives from these products from new projects may be insufficient to fund our operations. Microgy’s business approach to the renewable energy may not produce results as anticipated, be profitable or be readily accepted by the marketplace. We cannot estimate whether the gas produced by facilities based on Microgy’s technology will materialize at anticipated prices, or whether satisfactory profit margins will be achieved. If such pricing levels are not achieved or sustained, or if Microgy’s technologies and business approach to Microgy’s markets do not achieve or sustain broad acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and negatively impacted. 18 Table of Contents Because we have not filed patents to protect Microgy’s intellectual property, we might not be able to prevent others from using Microgy’s technology; conversely, others who have filed for patent or other protection might be able to prevent Microgy from using its technology. Microgy has not filed any patent applications on any of its intellectual property. Should Microgy decide to file patent applications, we cannot assure you that any patent applications relating to Microgy’s existing or future products or technologies will result in patents being issued, that any issued patents will afford adequate protection to Microgy, or that such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that others have not developed, or will not develop, similar technologies that will compete with Microgy’s without infringing upon Microgy’s intellectual property rights or those of its licensor. Third parties, including potential competitors, may already have filed patent applications relating to the subject matter of Microgy’s current or future technology. In the event that any such patents are issued to such parties, such patents may preclude Microgy or its licensor from obtaining patent protection for its technologies, products or processes. In addition, such patents may hinder or prevent Microgy from commercializing its technology and could require Microgy to enter into licenses with such parties. We cannot assure you that any required licenses would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Microgy relies on confidentiality agreements and licensing agreements to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology. To compete effectively, Microgy may have to defend the rights to its intellectual property from time to time. Such defense costs may be significant and have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we may lack the financial resources to adequately defend Microgy’s intellectual property. Microgy’s facilities are likely to be subject to numerous governmental regulations. We expect that Microgy’s facilities are likely to be subject to various local, state and federal government regulations, including regulations covering air and water quality, solid waste disposal and related pollution issues. These regulations are mandated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and state and local governments and are usually implemented through a permitting process, with ongoing compliance requirements thereafter. For example, grease-trap waste from restaurants and other food service providers is a desirable and highly available form of substrate for our facilities in Texas. However, the Texas environmental authorities required that we obtain a solid-waste permit for each of our planned facilities in Texas to the extent we desire to use grease-trap waste as substrate in the operation of such facilities. In addition, while we are authorized to distribute our effluent in Texas to neighboring properties pursuant to a commercial-fertilizer registration issued by the Texas State Chemist, the neighboring properties are still subject to regulations that require application of the effluent at agronomically sound rates. There are times when a customer has to curtail use of our liquid byproduct to prevent over-application, thereby necessitating that we find other outlets for the byproduct, potentially increasing operating costs, including provision for interim storage. We expect that all of our facilities will be required to obtain and comply with various environmental and other permits and approvals, which will vary from location to location. In addition, our activities will fall under a number of health and safety regulations and laws and regulations relating to farming and zoning. Compliance with these regulations and permitting requirements could delay the development of facilities and/or add to our operating costs on an interim or even a permanent basis and harm our financial condition or potentially require that we discontinue operations, depending upon the severity and duration of a particular compliance issue. Microgy’s facilities may become subject to regulations or taxes based on carbon or other emissions. Microgy’s facilities produce and emit into the atmosphere carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide as a result of the anaerobic digestion gas conditioning processes that they employ. While such facilities capture and thereby reduce the amount of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, that would otherwise enter the atmosphere, there are direct emissions of carbon dioxide, another greenhouse gas. As such, Microgy’s facilities may still be subject to 19 Table of Contents future federal or state legislation or regulation, or the implementation of international treaties, which seek to limit or impose a cost on greenhouse gas emissions. If any such legislation, regulations or treaties were implemented, Microgy may be required to expend resources to capture the carbon dioxide it produces, pay a tax on its carbon dioxide emissions, purchase greenhouse gas sequestration credits, reduce the greenhouse sequestration credits claimed for such facilities or take similar actions. In addition, Microgy could become subject to federal, state and local taxes and regulations regarding its other emissions. Any of the foregoing could harm the profitability of Microgy’s facilities. Our operating results are difficult to predict in advance and may fluctuate significantly, which may result in a substantial decline in our stock price. Our operating results are difficult to predict in advance and may fluctuate significantly, and a failure to meet the expectations of analysts or our stockholders would likely result in a substantial decline in our stock price. Factors that are likely to cause our results to fluctuate include the following: • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • the success or failure of the facilities currently underway; • our ability to specify, develop and complete facilities, and to introduce and market the energy created by such facilities and bring them to volume production in a timely manner; • the rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards in our target markets; and • other unforeseen activities or issues. If our operating results fluctuate greatly, our business may be materially adversely affected and our stock price will likely decline. Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock We have numerous outstanding shares of restricted common stock, as well as options, warrants and shares of preferred stock exercisable or convertible into a substantial number of shares of our common stock; the resale of outstanding restricted shares, as well as the exercise or conversion of these securities and the resale of the underlying shares, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The resale by our stockholders of shares of our restricted common stock or securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. A significant portion of our outstanding shares of common stock had been restricted from immediate resale, but is now available for sale in the market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately: • 15,803,034 shares of our common stock are issued and 15,708,591 shares are outstanding, of which 1,212,726 shares of common stock outstanding are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 and 117,625 shares are subject to vesting pursuant to restricted stock awards granted to certain employees; and • 2,823,659 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our series A preferred stock; all of which shares, other than employee restricted stock awards subject to vesting, are eligible for resale without volume and manner of sale restrictions in accordance with Rule 144, except to the extent held by our affiliates. We are currently authorized to issue 50,000,000 shares of common stock. In addition, in connection with our sale of shares of our series A preferred stock and common stock warrants on November 9, 2006, we filed a registration statement to permit the resale of up to 4,387,360 shares of common 20 Table of Contents stock issuable upon conversion of such shares of series A preferred stock and exercise of such warrants, which registration statement is currently effective. The shares of series A preferred stock were convertible at a conversion price of $5.27 per share, and the common stock warrants were exercisable at a price of $5.52 per share as to 1,406,205 of the warrants, and $5.27 per share as to 168,745 of the warrants. In October 2007, the exercise price of the warrants was reduced to $5.25 per share, and the preferred stock conversion price was reduced to $5.25 per share as a result of anti–dilution adjustments triggered by the issuance of common stock in the October 2007 public offering, resulting in an increase of 11,250 in the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the series A preferred stock. In May 2007, we issued to Cargill, Incorporated warrants to purchase 175,912 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $5.37 per share, representing 1% of our fully diluted common stock at the time, as required by a business development agreement with Cargill that expired in 2009. On March 13, 2009, we closed on the sale of $5 million original principal amount of our 14% convertible notes due January 1, 2014. These notes are convertible into an aggregate of up to approximately 925,926 shares of our common stock, based upon the minimum conversion price of the notes, all of which shares may be sold by the holders thereof without restriction, except to the extent held by our affiliates. On May 22, 2009 we issued an additional $3 million original principal amount of the notes as payment for certain license fees to the licensor of Microgy’s technology in a private placement transaction. These notes are convertible into up to approximately 555,556 shares of common stock, based upon the minimum conversion price. These shares are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding options, warrants and stock appreciation rights to acquire up to approximately 5,096,536 shares of our common stock at prices ranging from $0.20 to $8.89 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $4.51 per share and an average remaining contractual term of 3.8 years. The shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of these options will be freely transferable without restriction, except to the extent that they are held by our affiliates. Any shares held by our affiliates may only be sold in compliance with the volume limitations of Rule 144. These volume limitations restrict the number of shares that may be sold by an affiliate in any three-month period to the greater of 1% of the number of shares then outstanding, which equals approximately 157,000 shares as of December 31, 2009, or the average weekly trading volume of our common stock during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale. As a result of the resale of outstanding shares of our common stock, including restricted shares and shares issuable upon exercise or conversion of the foregoing securities, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the value of our common stock or make it more difficult for a party to acquire a controlling interest in our company. We are authorized to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 281,241 shares have been designated as series A 9% cumulative convertible preferred stock, referred to as the series A preferred stock, and which are currently issued and outstanding. The preferred stock not already designated and issued may be issued in series from time to time with such designations, rights, preferences and limitations as our board of directors may determine by resolution without stockholder approval. While the terms of the series A preferred stock do not currently allow for the issuance of preferred stock having dividend and liquidation preferences greater than or senior to the series A preferred stock, any future issuances of preferred stock may enjoy dividend and liquidation preferences over our common stock, thereby diminishing the value of our common stock. Furthermore, the issuance of preferred stock, as well as any authorized but unreserved common stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible future financings or acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from seeking to acquire, a controlling interest in our company. 21 Table of Contents Our management and directors, as well as the holders of our series A preferred stock, are able to exercise significant control over our management and affairs. As of December 31, 2009, executive officers and directors, including Richard E. Kessel, Joseph E. Cresci, Roger Ballentine, Kamlesh R. Tejwani, Robert I. Weisberg, John R. Cooper, August Schumacher, Jr., Lon Hatamiya, Steven Kessner, Michael E. Thomas and Dennis Haines, beneficially owned approximately 17.5% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, the three holders of our series A preferred stock, two of which are affiliated with each other, control approximately 18.3% of the total number of votes currently entitled to be cast at any meeting of our stockholders. While there are no voting agreements among them, such persons, as a group, may be able to exercise some level of control over the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder action, including the election of members to our board of directors and the approval of significant change in control transactions. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and, therefore, your opportunity to sell your shares in such a transaction. Furthermore, the holders of our series A preferred stock have special approval rights with respect to certain changes to our certificate of incorporation and certain other corporate actions. The lack of a developed trading market may make it difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. While our common stock is currently listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading activity in our common stock has fluctuated and has at times been limited. For example, for the one-month period from December 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009, our daily trading volume ranged from a low of 9,700 shares to a high of 969,200 shares, and averaged 255,000 shares a day. We cannot guarantee that a consistently active trading market will develop in the future. As a result, a holder of our common stock may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market and Nasdaq determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other listing requirements. Among these requirements is that our common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share. On March 16, 2010, we received notice from Nasdaq that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid requirement for continued listing and that our securities would be delisted. As permitted under the Nasdaq rules we have appealed this decision which will defer any delisting until after the appeal is heard in 30 to 45 days. We will consider available options to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. Nasdaq has informed us that the only historically acceptable definitive plan for regaining compliance is a reverse stock split. We are unable to determine if we will be successful with our appeal and may in any event determine it is in the best interest of our company to delist our securities even if our appeal is successful. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update the statements in this report for purposes of disclosing any action or response that we decide to take after the date hereof. If our stock is delisted, an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the delisting of our common stock would also trigger a right on the part of the holders of our outstanding shares of series A preferred stock to increase the cumulative dividend rate on such shares from 9% per year to 16% per year and such holders may claim other damages. We cannot assure you that we will not ultimately fail to comply with Nasdaq listing standards or voluntarily decide to delist our stock from The Nasdaq Capital Market. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our common stock has been volatile, and it is likely to continue to be so. For instance the price of our common stock reached a high of $1.09 in the first quarter of 2009 and a low of $0.14 in the fourth quarter of 2009. While we cannot state with any certainty the specific reasons for the recent volatility of 22 Table of Contents our stock price, we believe that such volatility could be due to the current financial recession and related economic uncertainties and their impact on the stock market generally as well as on the stock prices of early stage companies such as ours, in addition to the risks and uncertainties regarding our business described elsewhere in this report. In addition, the market price for our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new facilities and products by us or our competitors, or our failure to achieve operating results consistent with any securities analysts’ projections of our performance. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and volatility that have particularly affected the market price of many emerging growth and development stage companies such as ours. Such fluctuations and volatility have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. As a result of fluctuations related or unrelated to our performance, the value of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. We will require and are actively seeking significant additional financing, which may result in our issuing a significant number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock, which in turn may dilute the value of your shares. We continue to work with our financial advisors to identify and explore various opportunities to raise the capital we require. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise sufficient capital on acceptable terms, or at all. The level of funds we are able to raise, if any, will determine the level of development and construction activity that we can pursue and whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. We will require and will continue to seek corporate and project financing to fund our ongoing overhead and growth plans as well as the cost of any development we may decide to pursue for our facilities. Without limiting the foregoing, as described elsewhere in this annual report, we will have to raise significant additional financing in the first half of 2010 in order to fund ongoing general and administrative expenses associated with our corporate overhead as well as debt service and dividend requirements and to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any such financing could be in the form of debt or equity instruments or a combination of debt and equity instruments. To the extent any such financing involves equity or convertible debt, we may issue a significant number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock, which will dilute an existing investment in our common stock, and we may issue such shares at prices that may be lower than the price paid for our common stock by our stockholders. In addition, if we issue shares of preferred stock, such preferred stock may have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Indeed, the shares of our series A preferred stock issued in our November 2006 private placement have rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock. Because we are authorized to issue shares of additional series of preferred stock, as designated by our board of directors, subject to certain limitations included in the terms of our series A preferred stock, we may issue more shares of preferred stock in the future. Issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future could dilute existing stockholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock at values below our market price up to a maximum of 19.9% of our outstanding common stock without stockholder approval, which values may be substantially below the price paid for our common stock by our stockholders. We also do not need stockholder approval to issue an unlimited number of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock (provided sufficient shares of common stock are authorized and unreserved) at or above the market price for our common stock pursuant to certain Nasdaq Capital Market requirements. Any such issuances could be at values below the price paid for our common stock by our stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Our outstanding series A preferred stock has rights and preferences superior to that of our common stock, may impair our ability to raise additional financing, may harm our financial condition if we are required to redeem it and could have the effect of discouraging an acquisition or reducing the amount of proceeds available to common stockholders upon such an acquisition. Our shares of series A preferred stock have rights and preferences which are superior to those of our common stock, including: • an accruing dividend of 9% on the stated value of each outstanding share of series A preferred stock, payable before the payment of any dividends on our common stock; • a preference upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Environmental Power equal to 200% of the stated value of each share of preferred stock, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends; • the right to consent to certain changes to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and certain other significant corporate actions; and • the right to a payment equal to 150% of the stated value of each outstanding share of Series A preferred stock upon certain change-in-control events. Our series A preferred stock may also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. With certain exceptions, including exceptions for permitted indebtedness, as defined, we have agreed to limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness while such preferred stock is outstanding. Subject to other exceptions, we have also agreed with series A holders not to issue stock senior to or on a par with series A preferred stock. These constraints could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise funds necessary to continue our business. In addition, the series A preferred stock provides for various triggering events, such as our common stock not being listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange, Nasdaq Global Market, Nasdaq Capital Market or New York Stock Exchange, the failure to deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion and specified change of control transactions. Several other triggering events are described in the certificate of designations, preferences and rights of the series A preferred stock. If one of these triggering events occurs, we may be required to redeem all or part of the outstanding shares of series A preferred stock at 120% of their stated value (150% in the case of certain change in control transactions), including payment of accrued dividends and penalties, or the dividend rate on the series A preferred stock may be increased from 9% per year to 16% per year, depending on the triggering event and the elections made by the holders of the series A preferred stock. Some of the triggering events include matters over which we may have some, little, or no control. Any such redemption could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. Furthermore, by virtue of their voting power and other rights and preferences, the outstanding series A preferred stock could have the effect of blocking or discouraging certain acquisitions of our company or reducing the proceeds available to common stockholders as a result of any such acquisitions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since 2001, and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. The future payment of dividends directly depends upon the future earnings, capital requirements, financial requirements and other factors that our board of directors will consider, and is subject to the prior payment of all accrued but unpaid dividends on our series A preferred stock. Furthermore, the terms of our series A preferred stock prohibit the payment of dividends on our common stock while any shares of our series A preferred stock are outstanding. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock, the return on any investment in our common stock will depend solely on a change, if any, in the market value of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 