Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that may affect us and investments in us. Security holders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the discussion of other factors that could affect us or investments in us included elsewhere in this Report. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are identifying these risk factors as important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Inherent in our Business Changes in petroleum demand and distribution may adversely affect our business. In addition, the current economic downturn could result in lower demand for a sustained period of time. Demand for the services we provide depends upon the demand for the products we handle in the regions we serve and the supply of products in the regions connected to our pipelines or from which our customers source products handled by our terminals. Prevailing economic conditions, refined petroleum product, fuel oil and crude oil price levels and weather affect the demand for refined petroleum products. Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by our pipelines also affect the demand for refined petroleum products because a substantial portion of the refined petroleum products transported by our pipelines and throughput at our terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft. If these factors result in a decline in demand for refined petroleum products, our business would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because we operate without the benefit of either exclusive franchises from government entities or long-term contracts. In addition, changes in global patterns of supply and demand for fuel oil, crude oil and clean petroleum products could affect the demand for the services we provide at BORCO. In addition, in December 2007, Congress enacted the “Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007,” which, among other provisions, mandated annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, which commenced in 2008 and escalates for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. These statutory mandates or other similar renewable fuel or energy efficiency statutory mandates enacted by states may have the impact over time of reducing the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly with respect to gasoline. Other legislative changes may 22 Table of Contents similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict or control the effect of these factors on us. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced supply or demand and increased price competition for our products and services. In addition, economic conditions could result in a loss of customers in our operating segments because their access to the capital necessary to purchase services we provide is limited. Our operating results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions in certain regions, including the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the entire United States. If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the United States remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Competition could adversely affect our operating results. Generally, pipelines are the lowest cost method for long-haul overland movement of refined petroleum products. Therefore, the most significant competitors for large volume shipments in our Pipeline Operations segment are other existing pipelines, some of which are owned or controlled by major integrated oil companies. In addition, new pipelines (including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems) could be built to effectively compete with us in particular locations. Our Pipeline Operations segment competes with marine transportation in some areas. Tankers and barges on the Great Lakes account for some of the volume to certain Michigan, Ohio and upstate New York locations during the approximately eight non-winter months of the year. Barges are presently a competitive factor for deliveries to the New York City area, the Pittsburgh area, Connecticut and locations on the Ohio River such as Cincinnati, Ohio and locations on the Mississippi River, such as St. Louis, Missouri. Trucks competitively deliver refined petroleum products in a number of areas that we serve. While their costs may not be competitive for longer hauls or large volume shipments, trucks compete effectively for incremental and marginal volumes in many areas that we serve. The availability of truck transportation places a significant competitive constraint on our ability to increase our tariff rates. Privately arranged exchanges of refined petroleum products between marketers in different locations are another form of competition for our Pipeline Operations segment. Generally, these exchanges reduce both parties’ costs by eliminating or reducing transportation charges. In addition, consolidation among refiners and marketers that has accelerated in recent years has altered distribution patterns, reducing demand for transportation services in some markets and increasing them in other markets. Our Natural Gas Storage segment competes primarily with other storage facilities and pipelines in the storage of natural gas. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas stored by us and could adversely affect our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. Our Energy Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities, and must compete with the major integrated oil companies, their marketing affiliates, and independent brokers and marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience. Some of these companies have superior access to capital resources, which could affect our ability to effectively compete with them. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines and stored in our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of ours. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions. We are a holding company and depend entirely on our Operating Subsidiaries’ distributions to service our debt obligations and pay cash distributions to our Unitholders. We are a holding company with no material operations. If we do not receive cash distributions from our Operating Subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations or to make cash distributions to our Unitholders. Among other things, this would adversely affect the market price of our LP Units. We are currently bound by the terms of our Credit Facility which prohibits us from making distributions to our Unitholders if a default under the Credit Facility exists at the time of the distribution or would result from the distribution. Approval from the Central Bank of the Bahamas will be required before BORCO can make distributions to us. Our Operating Subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions which could further limit each Operating Subsidiary’s ability to make distributions to us. We may incur unknown and contingent liabilities from assets we have acquired. Some of the assets we have acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products. Releases from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way may have occurred prior to our acquisition. In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. The BORCO facility was constructed between 1968 and 1975 and was initially constructed and designed to operate as a refinery which was permanently shut down in 1985. We have performed a certain level of diligence in connection with the acquisition of BORCO and have attempted to verify the representations made by First Reserve and Vopak, but there may be unknown and contingent liabilities related to BORCO of which we are unaware. First Reserve and Vopak have not agreed to indemnify us for losses or claims relating to the operation of the business or otherwise except for breaches of First Reserve’s and Vopak’s obligations to pay certain fees, transfer taxes and expenses and for certain breaches of representations and warranties of First Reserve and Vopak. If a significant release or event occurred in the past at any of our acquired assets, including BORCO, and we are responsible for all or a significant portion of the liability associated with such release or event, it could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We could be liable for unknown obligations relating to any of our acquired assets, for which indemnification is not available, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flow. A significant decline in production at certain refineries served by certain of our pipelines and terminals could materially reduce the volume of refined petroleum products we transport and adversely impact our operating results. A refinery that our pipelines and terminals service could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors such as unscheduled maintenance, catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers; or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations. For example, a significant decline in production at the ConocoPhillips Wood River refinery, Valero Paulsboro refinery or Husky Lima refinery could negatively impact the financial performance of such assets and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents A substantial amount of the petroleum products handled by BORCO are exported from Venezuela, which exposes us to political risks. A substantial portion of BORCO’s revenues relate to petroleum products exported from Venezuela by Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (commonly referred to as PDVSA). This involvement with products exported from Venezuela exposes BORCO to significant risks, including potential political and economic instability and trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States and other countries. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of our being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition or we may be unable to integrate certain assets we acquire as part of a larger acquisition to the extent such assets relate to a business for which we have no or limited experience. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. The representations, warranties, and indemnifications made by each of First Reserve and Vopak are limited in the BORCO sale and purchase agreements and our diligence of BORCO has been limited; as a result, the assumptions on which our estimates of future results of BORCO have been based may prove to be incorrect in a number of material ways, resulting in us not realizing the expected benefits of the BORCO acquisition. The representations and warranties made by each of First Reserve and Vopak are limited in the BORCO sale and purchase agreements and our diligence of BORCO has been limited. In addition, the sale and purchase agreements do not provide any indemnities other than for breaches of First Reserve’s and Vopak’s obligations to pay certain fees, transfer taxes and expenses and for certain breaches of representations and warranties of First Reserve and Vopak. As a result, the assumptions on which our estimates of future results of BORCO have been based may prove to be incorrect in a number of material ways, resulting in us not realizing our expected benefits of the BORCO acquisition, including anticipated increased cash flow. We are in the process of refining our expansion plans for BORCO. Once those plans are finalized, we may not be able to execute those expansion plans on economically viable terms, if at all. In connection with this expansion effort, we may encounter difficulties. These risks include the following: • unexpected operational events; • adverse weather conditions; • inadequate customer demand for, or interest in, flexible storage; • regulatory hurdles; • facility or equipment malfunctions or breakdowns; • a shortage of skilled labor; and • risks associated with subcontractors’ services, supplies, cost escalation and personnel. Debt securities we issue are, and will continue to be, junior to claims of our Operating Subsidiaries’ creditors. Our outstanding debt securities are structurally subordinated to the claims of our Operating Subsidiaries’ creditors. In addition, any debt securities we issue in the future will likewise be subordinated in the same manner. Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our Operating Subsidiaries. Our claim to the assets of our 25 Table of Contents Operating Subsidiaries derives from our own ownership interests in those Operating Subsidiaries. Claims of our Operating Subsidiaries’ creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of our Operating Subsidiaries over our own ownership interests and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including our debt securities. Our rate structures are subject to regulation and change by the FERC. Buckeye Pipe Line, Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO are interstate common carriers regulated by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the Department of Energy Organization Act. The FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. In the alternative, a pipeline is allowed to charge market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market. The indexing methodology is used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO. The indexing method in 2010 allowed a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.3% — although in December 2010, FERC amended its regulations to change the index to the PPI-FG plus 2.65% effective July 1, 2011. If the index were to be negative, we would be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. In addition, changes in the PPI might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus hampering our ability to recover our costs. Shippers may also file protests against the application of the index to an individual pipeline’s rates, as well as complaints against indexed rates as being unjust and unreasonable, subject to the FERC’s cost-of-service standards. Buckeye Pipe Line presently is authorized to charge rates set by market forces, subject to limitations, rather than by reference to costs historically incurred by the pipeline, in 15 regions and metropolitan areas. The Buckeye Pipe Line program is an exception to the generic oil pipeline regulations the FERC issued under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The generic rules rely primarily on the index methodology described above. The Buckeye Pipe Line rate program was reevaluated by the FERC in July 2000, and was allowed to continue with no material changes. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that a change in the FERC’s method of regulating Buckeye Pipe Line would have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” or setting fuel economy or air quality standards could result in increased operating costs or reduced demand for the refined petroleum products, natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that we transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our business. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” endanger human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”). On September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final CAA rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. These regulations will require reporting for some of our facilities, and additional EPA regulations that are expected to be adopted in 2010 will require certain of our other facilities to report their greenhouse gas emissions, possibly beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Furthermore, the EPA has issued a final rule setting emission standards for light-duty vehicles for the 2012-2016 model years. In October 2010, the EPA announced its intent to implement a GHG emissions reducing program for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles. Motor vehicle emission standards could impact our operations by effectively reducing demand for motor fuels from crude oil. Furthermore, the EPA has asserted that final motor vehicle GHG emission standards will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for stationary sources, although the EPA has proposed to tailor such that only large stationary sources will be required to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. Thus, adoption of the motor vehicle standards could also potentially affect our operations and ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. 26 Table of Contents Legislation and regulations relating to control or reporting of GHG emissions are also in various stages of discussions or implementation in many of the states in which we operate. The adoption and implementation of any legislation or CAA regulations limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations or any future laws or regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. The effect on our operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, measure and report our emissions, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates we charge, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations. In addition, laws or regulations regarding fuel economy, air quality or greenhouse gas emissions could include efficiency requirements or other methods of curbing carbon emissions that could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products, natural gas and other hydrocarbon products that we transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our business. A significant decrease in demand for petroleum products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our physical assets, impact our ability to conduct operations and/or result in a disruption of our customer’s operations. These climate-change related physical changes could also affect entities that provide goods and services to us and indirectly have an adverse affect on our business as a result of increases in costs or availability of goods and services. Changes of this nature could have a material adverse impact on our business. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material environmental liabilities. Additionally, our costs could increase significantly, and we could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments: • environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or • claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from our operations are filed. Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of refined petroleum products may necessitate changes to our pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes. For instance, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees we may receive at our terminals. BORCO may be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments. BORCO’s terminal facility is located in The Bahamas. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of international operations, including political, economic and regulatory developments and changes in laws or policies affecting our terminal operations, as well as changes in the policies of the United States affecting trade, taxation and investment in other countries. Any such developments or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Compliance with laws and regulations that apply to BORCO increases the cost of doing business and could interfere with our ability to offer services or expose us to fines and penalties. These numerous laws and regulations include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials or 27 Table of Contents agents. Although policies designed to fully ensure compliance with these laws are in place or under development, employees, contractors, or agents may violate the policies. Any such violations could include prohibitions on BORCO’s ability to offer its services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow. DOT regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on us. Our pipeline operations and natural gas storage operations are subject to regulation by the DOT. These regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity testing to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas or commercially navigable waterways. In response to these regulations, we conduct pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis. Depending on the results of these integrity tests, we could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. Congress will reauthorize the Pipeline Safety Act in 2011, and PHMSA is expected to promulgate new regulations. These actions may affect our operations. Our business is exposed to customer credit risk, and we may not be able to fully protect ourselves against such risk. Our businesses are subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers. We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes use letters of credit, prepayments and guarantees. However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our customers, counterparties and suppliers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties. Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. The marketing business in our Energy Services segment enters into sales contracts pursuant to which customers agree to buy refined petroleum products from us at a fixed-price on a future date. If our customers have not hedged their exposure to reductions in refined petroleum product prices and there is a price drop, then they could have a significant loss upon settlement of their fixed-price contracts with us, which could increase the risk of their nonpayment or nonperformance. In addition, we generally have entered into futures contracts to hedge our exposure under these fixed-price contracts to increases in refined petroleum product prices. If price levels are lower at settlement than when we entered into these futures contracts, then we will be required to make payments upon the settlement thereof. Ordinarily, this settlement payment is offset by the payment received from the customer pursuant to the associated fixed-price contract. We are, however, required to make the settlement payment under the futures contract even if a fixed-price contract customer does not perform. Nonperformance under fixed-price contracts by a significant number of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. BORCO depends on a limited number of customers for substantially all of its revenue, and the loss of any of them could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Storage revenue represented approximately 80% of BORCO’s total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Currently, BORCO has a limited number of long-term storage customers, consisting of oil majors, energy companies, physical traders and one national oil company. For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, approximately 30% and 69% of storage revenue was derived from the top one and the top three customers, respectively. We expect BORCO to continue to derive substantially all of its total revenue from a small number of customers in the future. BORCO may be unsuccessful in renewing its storage contracts with its customers, and those customers may discontinue or reduce contracted storage from BORCO. If any of BORCO’s customers, in particular its top three customers, significantly reduces its contracted storage with BORCO and if BORCO is unable to find other storage customers on terms substantially similar to the terms under BORCO’s existing storage contracts, our business, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks could adversely affect our business. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries or terminals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. During 2007, the Department of Homeland Security promulgated the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (“CFATS”) to regulate the security of facilities considered to have “high risk” chemicals. We have submitted to the Department of Homeland Security certain required information concerning our facilities in compliance with CFATS and, as a result, several of our facilities have been determined to be initially tiered as “high risk” by the Department of Homeland Security. Due to this determination, we are required to prepare a security vulnerability assessment and possibly develop and implement site security plans required by CFATS. The Department of Homeland Security began additional scrutiny and enforcement of the CFATS requirements in 2010, and that is expected to continue. At this time, we do not believe that compliance with CFATS will have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be insured. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. Our operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers’ compensation and environmental insurance policies. In the future, however, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, thereby reducing our ability to make distributions to Unitholders, or payments to debt holders. Hurricanes could damage the facilities or disrupt our marine terminals or the operations of their customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow. The operations of BORCO or our Yabucoa, Puerto Rico facility could be impacted by severe weather conditions such as hurricanes. Any such event could cause a serious business disruption or serious damage to such facilities, which could affect such facilities’ ability to provide terminalling services. Additionally, such events could impact our marine terminal facilities’ customers, and they may be unable to utilize our services. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow. Our natural gas storage business depends on third party pipelines to transport natural gas. We depend on Pacific Gas and Electric’s intrastate gas pipelines to move our customers’ natural gas to and from our Lodi Gas facility. Any interruption of service or decline in utilization on the pipelines or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service for the pipelines could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to transport natural gas to and from the Lodi Gas facility, and could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our storage revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities could affect the utilization and value of our storage services. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas could have a significant financial impact on us. Our profitability is materially affected by the volume of natural gas stored by us. A material change in the supply or demand of natural gas could result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to the Lodi Gas facility for storage, and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Our results could be adversely affected by volatility in the value of natural gas storage services, including hub services. The Natural Gas Storage segment stores natural gas for, and loans natural gas to, its customers for fixed periods of time. If the values of natural gas storage services change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from these activities. Although the Natural Gas Storage segment does not purchase or sell natural gas, the value of natural gas storage services generally changes based on changes in the relative prices of natural gas over different delivery periods. In particular, the hub services portion of our Natural Gas Storage segment involves our entry into interruptible natural gas storage agreements with our customers. These agreements are entered into in order to maximize the daily utilization of the natural gas storage facility, while also attempting to capture value from seasonal price differences in the natural gas markets. To the extent that the seasonal price differences were to moderate, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be negatively impacted. Our results could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of refined petroleum products. The Energy Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities. If the values of refined petroleum products change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from these activities. Furthermore, when refined petroleum product prices increase rapidly and dramatically, we may be unable to promptly pass our additional costs to our customers, resulting in lower margins for us which could adversely affect our results of operations. It is our practice to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between commodity purchases, on the one hand, and expected commodity sales or future delivery obligations, on the other hand. Through these transactions, we seek to establish a margin for the commodity purchased by selling the same commodity for physical delivery to third party users, such as wholesalers or retailers. While our hedging policies are designed to minimize commodity risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply could expose us to risk of loss resulting from price changes if we are required to obtain alternative supplies to cover these sales transactions. In addition, we are also exposed to basis risks in our hedging activities that arise when a commodity, such as ultra low sulfur diesel, is purchased at one pricing index but must be hedged against another commodity type, such as heating oil, because of limitations in the markets for derivative products. We are also susceptible to basis risk created when we hedge a commodity based on prices at a certain location, such as the New York Harbor, and enter into a sale or exchange of that commodity at another location, such as Macungie, Pennsylvania, where prices and price changes might differ from the prices and price changes at the location upon which the hedging instrument is based. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity risk and any noncompliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. Our Energy Services segment follows risk management practices that are designed to minimize its commodity risk, and the Natural Gas Storage segment has adopted risk management policies that are designed to manage the risks associated with its storage business. These practices and policies cannot, however, eliminate all price and price-related risks and there is also the risk of noncompliance with such practices and policies. We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of these practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. Financing the BORCO acquisition substantially increased our leverage. In January 2011, we sold $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% Notes due 2021. The increase in our indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditures or working capital needs. 30 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Partnership Structure We may sell additional units, diluting existing interests of Unitholders. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue additional units and certain other equity securities without Unitholder approval. There is no limit on the total number of units and other equity securities we may issue. When we issue additional units or other equity securities, the proportionate partnership interest of our existing Unitholders will decrease. The issuance could negatively affect the amount of cash distributed to Unitholders and the market price of the units. Issuance of additional units will also diminish the relative voting strength of the previously outstanding LP Units. Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner and its directors and officers. Our general partner and its directors and officers owe fiduciary duties to our Unitholders. Provisions of our partnership agreement and partnership agreements for each of our operating partnerships, however, contain language limiting the liability of the general partner and its directors and officers to the Unitholders for actions or omissions taken in good faith which do not involve gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, these partnership agreements grant broad rights of indemnification to the general partner and its directors, officers, employees and affiliates. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partnership interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were determined that we had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the Unitholders as a group took any action pursuant to our partnership agreement that constituted participation in the “control” of our business, then the Unitholders could be held liable under some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a Unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of distributions paid to the Unitholder for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Tax Risks to Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in LP Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless its gross income from its business activities satisfies a “qualifying income” requirement. “Qualifying income” includes income and gains derived from the transportation, storage, processing and marketing of natural resources, including crude oil, natural gas and products thereof. Based upon our current operations we believe that we are treated as a partnership rather than a corporation for such purposes; however, a change in our business could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. 31 Table of Contents In addition, current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. At the federal level, Congress has recently considered legislation that would have eliminated partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. Although such legislation would not have applied to us as proposed, it could be reintroduced or amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our LP Units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to you. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to Unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to Unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to Unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to holders of our LP Units, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our LP Units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our LP Units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or certain other matters affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our LP Units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our Unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our Unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our LP Units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your LP Units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount you realize and your tax basis in those LP Units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your LP Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the LP Units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such LP Units at a price greater than your tax basis in those LP Units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because your amount realized includes your share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your LP Units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. 32 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our LP Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our LP Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and IRAs, and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our LP Units. We treat each purchaser of LP Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual LP Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the LP Units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of LP Units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of LP Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our LP Units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing U.S. Treasury regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our Unitholders. A Unitholder whose LP Units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of LP Units may be considered as having disposed of those LP Units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a Unitholder whose LP Units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of LP Units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned LP Units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the Unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those LP units may not be reportable by the Unitholder and any cash distributions received by the Unitholder as to those LP Units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their LP Units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all Unitholders, which would 33 Table of Contents result in us filing two tax returns (and our Unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a Unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a relief program whereby, a publicly traded partnership that technically terminates may be allowed to provide one Schedule K-1 to Unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our LP Units, a Unitholder may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, a Unitholder will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if a Unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions. A Unitholder will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, a Unitholder may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in a number of states in the United States. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. Additionally, we also own property and conduct business in Puerto Rico and The Grand Bahamas. Under current law, you are not required to file a tax return or pay taxes in either of these jurisdictions. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is a Unitholder’s responsibility to file all foreign, federal, state and local tax returns. We have a subsidiary that is treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through a subsidiary that is a corporation for federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. The corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our Unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that the corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution would be further reduced. BORCO is currently exempt from Bahamian taxation. If BORCO’s tax status in The Bahamas were to change, such that BORCO has more tax liability than we anticipate, our cash flow could be materially adversely affected. BORCO is currently exempt from income and property tax in The Bahamas pursuant to concessions granted under the Hawksbill Creek Agreement between the Government of the Bahamas and the Grand Bahama Port Authority. BORCO’s exemption from Bahamian taxation pursuant to the Hawksbill Creek Agreement is scheduled to expire in 2015. If the Bahamian governmental authorities do not extend the concessions under the Hawksbill Creek Agreement or BORCO’s tax status in The Bahamas were to otherwise change, such that BORCO has more tax liability than we anticipate, our cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 Table of Contents 