ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS INFLUENCING FUTURE RESULTS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results that are not set forth below, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and it is possible that certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could also potentially impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 OUR REVENUE AND GROSS PROFIT MAY SUFFER IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS FOR WHOM WE HAVE CONTRACTS UP FOR RENEWAL. As set forth in "Item 1 -- Business," Ford Motor Company is a significant client of ours. Ford has recently announced its intent to implement significant cost reductions and organizational restructurings in response to declining business activity. A significant reduction in our business levels with Ford would materially impact our expected levels of operating performance and could slow our cash flow if payments on accounts receivable were delayed or suspended. During 2007, we have contracts pending renewal that comprise approximately 15% of our 2006 revenue. We believe that we are well positioned to renew most of these contracts due to our overall value proposition, but there can be no assurance in this regard. See our discussion below of risks inherent in providing Government Technology Services. THE COMPETITIVE PRESSURES WE FACE COULD HARM OUR REVENUE, GROSS MARGIN AND BUSINESS PROSPECTS. We face intense competition in all of our markets and for all of our services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources, including more locations, greater financial resources, a larger client base, and greater name and brand recognition. These competitors may be willing to provide the same services that we provide at a loss or at a lower gross margin in order to attain other, more lucrative business from our customers. Due to this competition, it may be difficult for us to retain our current customers or grow our revenue outside of our current customer base. The intense competition we face may result in our customers demanding reduced pricing from us in order for us to remain a preferred vendor. These pressures are likely to continue to increase due to the trend to move outsourcing services offshore to countries with lower labor costs, such as India, Malaysia and the Philippines. Our inability to continue to execute upon our strategy to address the globalization of the support services market could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain and grow our customer base. Further, we may have to continue to lower the prices of our services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve quality, revenue and gross margin. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin, and therefore our profitability, could be adversely affected. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the process to win new business tends to be long. Our IT Outsourcing Services business models require significant changes to our customers' business processes, and each customer may have significant internal political difficulties with local regions surrendering decentralized control of the support function. The decision makers are rarely involved in the early details of the selection process so there are often multiple sales efforts -- to the team charged with selection and then to the Chief Information Officer/Chief Executive Officer/Board -- that have to occur. Our results are dependent on our ability to successfully manage the sales process and strong competition in these markets. WE ARE SUBJECT TO CONTRACT RISKS INHERENT IN OUR BUSINESS. The great majority of our contracts, including our Ford Global SPOC contract, may be terminated without cause on short notice, often upon as little as 90-days notice. Terminations and non-renewals of major contracts could have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our IT Outsourcing Services business is billed on a managed service basis (in which the fee is fixed to perform specified services) as opposed to a time and materials basis. The onset of problems in our customers' infrastructure, such as computer viruses, may require us to deploy additional resources to solve these problems. In many instances, we would not receive any additional revenue for the work performed, thereby adversely impacting our profitability. To the extent we provide service on a per-incident, per-call or per-minute basis, our financial performance is dependent upon the volume of service requests that we receive on the project. Some of our contracts do not contain minimum guaranteed volume, so we may not receive enough volume during a month to pay for our costs relating to a specific contract. Even where volume guarantees exist, we may not receive enough volume to make a profit for the month the guarantee is enforced. Also, many of our contracts contain financial penalties for our failure to 10 meet the contractual performance service levels. If the volume is too high, we may not be able to meet the service levels. In the United States, we are able to manage this risk through changes in our staffing, but our European entities do not have as much flexibility in staffing due largely to labor laws. Due to the competitive market, we often must agree to a price for providing service based primarily on information provided to us by our prospective customer. Sometimes this information is not correct, and it is difficult to increase our price because the prospective customer has a limited budget. Our inability to estimate accurately the resources and related expenses required for a project, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with their terms, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS INHERENT IN THE PROVISION OF TECHNOLOGY SERVICES TO GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from U.S. Federal Government contracts that typically are awarded through competitive processes and span a one-year base period and one or more option years. When the U.S. Federal Government budget is under pressure, as it is at the present time, it may be difficult to develop business with new customers and grow or maintain contracts with existing customers. The unexpected termination or non-renewal of one or more of our significant contracts could result in significant revenue shortfalls. Our clients generally have the right not to exercise the option periods. In addition, our contracts typically contain provisions permitting an agency to terminate the contract on short notice, with or without cause. Following the expiration of the contract term, if the client requires further services of the type provided in the contract, there is frequently a competitive re-bidding process. We may not win any particular re-bid or be able to successfully bid on new contracts to replace those that have been terminated. Many of the systems we support involve managing and protecting information involved in the U.S. Department of Defense and other sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, could result in negative publicity and could prevent us from having further access to such critically sensitive systems or other similarly sensitive areas for other governmental clients. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the policy limits that we have for "errors and omissions" insurance, or it may not apply. Some of our U.S. Federal Government contracts require us, and certain of our employees, to maintain security clearances. If we lose or are unable to obtain security clearances, the client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular engagement, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the engagement, which could negatively impact our operating results. U.S. Federal Government agencies routinely audit government contracts. These agencies review a contractor's performance on its contract, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. An audit could result in an adjustment to our revenue because any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while improper costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Federal Government agencies. In addition, we could suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. We must comply with and are affected by U.S. Federal Government regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These regulations affect how we do business with our clients and subcontractors, including mandating the percentage of business contracted to us that we must subcontract to small and minority businesses. These regulations may impose added costs on our business. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions, or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. Federal Government. Further, the U.S. Federal Government may reform its procurement practices or adopt new contracting methods relating to the General Services Administration schedule or other government-wide contract vehicles. To the extent that we are unable to successfully comply with these regulations, our Government Technology Services business could be negatively impacted. IF WE LOSE KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO RECRUIT ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. 11 Our success is highly dependent upon the efforts, direction and guidance of our executive leadership team. We currently have only two employment agreements with our executive officers (the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Vice President, EMEA). The loss of any of our senior executives or our inability to attract, retain or replace key management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is very labor intensive. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled technical, clerical and administrative employees. We can experience high turnover of our personnel and are often required to recruit and train replacement personnel as a result of a changing and expanding work force. Qualified personnel, especially in Washington, D.C., Bucharest, Romania, and Gothenburg Sweden, are in high demand. Accordingly, we may experience increased compensation costs that may not be offset through either increased productivity or higher customer pricing. Moreover, no assurances can be given that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees in the future, especially when we need to expand our services in a short time period. While we attempt to implement a career path model where our helpdesks are located, thereby enabling our employees to move to new jobs that require higher skill levels and pay more money, this objective is difficult to achieve in tight labor markets. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, or increases in wages or other costs of attracting, training or retaining qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED SALES AND ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR ORGANIC GROWTH TARGETS. Our business involves the delivery of complex services over a distributed IT environment. It takes time to train new sales people in our business and for them to build a pipeline of opportunities. Inasmuch as we strive to grow existing accounts by expanding our services to new locations or adding new services to our solution, we rely heavily on our account managers to grow our revenue. In the past year, we experienced significant turnover in our sales force and account management team. We are in the process of rebuilding these teams. Our inability to find the right personnel and train them quickly may have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our organic growth targets. IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR STRATEGY TO GROW THROUGH COMPLEMENTARY BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS IS SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS RISKS AND DIFFICULTIES. Our business strategy includes seeking to make complementary business acquisitions. In order to pursue a growth by acquisition strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for these transactions, complete these transactions and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and potentially expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. Integration issues include, but are not limited to, the diversion of management's attention, the loss of key business and/or personnel from the acquired company, unanticipated events, legal liabilities, dilutive effect of the issuance of additional securities and possible impairment of acquired intangible assets. Moreover, the financial risks continue after the integration of the acquired company. If the implicit value of the business declines, there could be a non-cash, partial or full write-off of the acquired intangible assets, including goodwill, attributed to the acquisition. Acquisitions also may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Any of these possible difficulties associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. We operate businesses in many countries outside the United States, all of which are currently located throughout Europe. As part of our business strategy, we anticipate expanding our global reach to be able to deliver services 12 from the Asia Pacific region and South America. As a result, we expect to continue expansion through start-up operations and acquisitions in additional countries. Expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional countries will require management attention and financial resources. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition also could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including the following: - changes in a country or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and unanticipated military conflicts; - currency fluctuations, particularly in the European euro, which contribute to variations in the sale of services in impacted jurisdictions and also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; - longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; - local labor conditions and regulations; - differences in cultures and languages, which can impair our ability to work as an effective global team; - differing political and social systems; - changes in the regulatory or legal environment; - differing technology standards or customer requirements; - difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner; - changes in tax laws in international jurisdictions; and - natural and man-made disasters. To the extent we are not able to manage our international operations successfully, our business could be adversely affected and revenue or earnings could be reduced. THERE ARE SUBSTANTIAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EXPANDING OUR BUSINESS INTO OFFSHORE MARKETS. The outsourcing industry trend to move business towards offshore markets could result in excess operating capacity in the United States and Belgium, thereby increasing competition for customers. Moreover, there are no assurances that we will be able to successfully expand into and conduct business in offshore markets. The success of any offshore operation is subject to numerous contingencies, some of which are beyond management control, including general and regional economic conditions, prices for our services, competition, changes in regulation and other risks. Any failure in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See the discussion above regarding the risks associated with international operations. When a number of service providers enter these offshore locations, the competition for employees increases, causing turnover and increasing labor costs. In these circumstances, we bear the risk of inflation, especially labor inflation, which could result in our costs increasing faster than we can improve technician productivity. Several of our customers are attracted to the reduction in cost of our services they may obtain as a result of delivery from an offshore location. They also wish to enter into contracts that tend to provide them with predictable costs, while shifting the risk of volume fluctuations to us. Accordingly, we enter into long-term contracts to provide monthly services with a price that does not adjust significantly with inflation. Our inability to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 WE ARE SUBJECT TO CURRENCY RISKS AS A RESULT OF OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. We serve an increasing number of our U.S.-based customers using help desks in Europe. Some of these contracts are priced in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of our costs are incurred in Romanian lei or the European euro. Thus, we are subject to a foreign currency exchange risk. Although we enter into foreign exchange contracts from time to time to limit potential foreign currency exposure, we do not fully hedge this exposure. As a result, unfavorable shifts in exchange rates may reduce our gross profit on these contracts. OUR INABILITY TO PROPERLY MANAGE PROJECTS AND CAPACITY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our ability to profit from the global trend toward outsourcing depends in part on how effectively we manage our help desk capacity. There are several factors and trends that have intensified the challenge of resource management. In order to either create the additional capacity necessary to accommodate new or expanded outsourcing projects or to manage the risk of labor inflation, we must consider opening new help desk facilities. The opening or expansion of a help desk facility may result, at least in the short term, in idle capacity until any new or expanded program is fully implemented. We periodically assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our help desk facilities. As a result, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate, close or partially close under-performing help desk facilities in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal utilization of our help desk capacity. If we do not effectively manage our capacity, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. With the addition of our Romanian help desk facility, we have significantly increased the amount of business that we are performing for the same customer from more than one location. Multisite and multilingual delivery increases the complexity of the service provided including, but not limited to, managing call volume and resources. Our inability to manage the different cultures and personnel to deliver consistent quality from different sites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers often ask us to expand our geographic footprint and the languages that we support. Often, they are seeking to reduce the cost of our support. Moreover, in order for us to keep our costs in line with the marketplace, our future success will be dependent upon our ability to find cost-effective locations in which to operate internationally. There is no assurance that we will be able to find cost-effective locations, obtain favorable lease terms, develop subcontractor relationships, establish facilities and train a workforce in a timely or economic manner. Further, our work in the IT Consulting and Systems Integration business segment requires the efficient management of human resources. There is a risk that we may not have sold new business to replace projects as they are completed. Because we may not be able to maintain a steady or increasing demand for our services, we could suffer fluctuations in our revenue, the number of employees and results of operations. WE ARE INCREASINGLY SELLING OUR SERVICES THROUGH CHANNEL PARTNERS AND OUR INABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE A CHANNEL PARTNER OR CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE AFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are focused on developing relationships with channel and alliance partners to help us sell our services. These channel and alliance partners may be large companies with complementary services that may hire us to provide services to their customers. In these relationships, we generally do not control the customer relationship. Accordingly, we are dependent upon the prime contractor to appropriately manage our service delivery for the end customer. The failure of the prime contractor to do so can lead to situations where projects are delayed, modified or terminated for reasons outside our control. The channel and alliance partners may be in a different business or we may be their customer, and therefore we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with the best value for our purchases. Our inability to manage these relationships could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT UPON TECHNOLOGY, AND OUR INABILITY TO KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES IN OUR INDUSTRY, OR OUR FAILURE OR INABILITY TO PROTECT AND MAINTAIN OUR EXISTING SYSTEMS, COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop IT solutions that keep pace with continuing changes in the IT industry, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in adequately addressing these developments on a timely basis or that, if these developments are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. We need to continually make significant investments in sophisticated and specialized communications and computer technology to meet our clients' needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis to maintain our competitiveness. Significant capital expenditures may be required to keep our technology up-to-date. There can be no assurance that any of our information systems will be adequate to meet our future needs or that we will be able to incorporate new technology to enhance and develop our existing services. Moreover, investments in technology, including future investments in upgrades and enhancements to software, may not necessarily maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to anticipate and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands. Our inability to effectively keep pace with continuing changes in the IT industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security, or that of our customers, and misappropriate confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. If this were to occur, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. Moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers for information technology outsourcing services or other information technology solutions, or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design and manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our systems. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses, worms and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our help desk facilities and our information databases against damages that may be caused by fire and other disasters, power failures, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and other emergencies. The temporary or permanent loss of such systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding precautions we have taken to protect ourselves and our clients from events that could interrupt delivery of our services, there can be no assurance that a fire, natural disaster, human error, equipment malfunction or inadequacy, computer virus, firewall breach or other event would not result in a prolonged interruption in our ability to provide support services to our clients. Moreover, as we commence delivering services from an offshore location, the risks related to interruption of telecommunications increases. Any interruption to our data or voice telecommunications networks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT UPON GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our revenue and gross profit depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for our services in the markets in which we compete. Softened demand for our services caused by economic weakness and constrained information technology spending over the past several years has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross profit, earnings or growth rates and problems with our ability to realize customer receivables. In addition, customer financial difficulties have resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in accounts receivable write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Further delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and consequently our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INCREASES IN BUSINESS COSTS. Health care and other benefit costs continue to increase. Our business is labor intensive, and therefore we have exposure to these increasing health care and other benefit costs. While we attempt to compensate for these escalating costs in our business cost models and customer pricing and have passed along some of these increased costs to our employees, we generally have long-term, fixed-price pricing agreements with our customers. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that we will be able to recover increases in our costs through increased service fees. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TERRORIST ACTS OR OTHER EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Terrorist acts or acts of war (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to TechTeam, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR USE OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. We rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and suppliers and limit distribution of proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use of such information and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Although we believe our services and/or software do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others and that we have all of the rights necessary to utilize the intellectual property employed in our business, we are subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums of money in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses of the intellectual property that may be the subject of asserted infringement. WE MAY EXPERIENCE VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK PRICE THAT COULD AFFECT YOUR INVESTMENT. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control including, but not limited to: - the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock; - general economic conditions; - developments in the industries or markets in which we operate; - announcements by competitors; - actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; - speculation in the press or investment community; - sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by insiders; - regulatory actions or litigation; and - departures of our key personnel. The market price of our common stock may also be affected by our inability to meet analyst and investor expectations or failure to achieve projected financial results. Any failure to meet such expectations or projected financial results, even if minor, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Volatility in our stock price may result in your inability to sell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them. In addition, stock markets have generally experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of equity securities of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action lawsuits frequently have been instituted against such companies following periods of volatility in the market price of such companies' securities. If any such litigation is 16 instigated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR ORGANIZATIONAL DOCUMENTS AND RIGHTS AGREEMENT, AS WELL AS APPLICABLE DELAWARE CORPORATE LAW, COULD IMPEDE AN ATTEMPT TO REPLACE OR REMOVE OUR MANAGEMENT, PREVENT THE SALE OF OUR COMPANY OR PREVENT OR FRUSTRATE ANY ATTEMPT BY STOCKHOLDERS TO CHANGE THE DIRECTION OF OUR COMPANY, EACH OF WHICH COULD DIMINISH THE VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and/or restated, as well as applicable Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or prevent the sale of our company that, in either case, stockholders might consider being in their best interests. For example, our bylaws limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders' meetings. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a Rights Agreement, dated May 6, 1997, as amended, that may have anti-takeover effects by delaying, deferring or preventing an unsolicited acquisition proposal, even if the proposal may be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Further, certain anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for an unsolicited bidder to acquire us. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 