ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Holders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to other information in this Form 10-K. We are identifying these risk factors as important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. We are relying upon the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements and any such statements made by or on behalf of us are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements, as well as those set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to obtain our raw materials at favorable prices, it could adversely impact our financial condition. Pricing for our products and services is primarily driven by worldwide manufacturing capacity in the industry and by raw material costs. The price of raw materials is important to our operating results. In 2006, materials expense represented approximately 81% of our cost of sales. Our principal raw material, polyethylene resins, is occasionally in short supply and subject to substantial price fluctuation in response to market demand and the price of feed stocks, including natural gas. Generally, we do not enter into purchase contracts for the future delivery of raw materials, and, accordingly, our suppliers may change their prices and other purchase terms at any time. If raw materials prices increase, we may not be able to pass on such increases to our customers under our contracts. Also, as discussed elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section, we compete with companies that manufacture products using raw materials different from ours and if we experience an increase in the price of our raw materials or an interruption in the supply of our raw materials, our competitors would not necessarily suffer the same price increases or supply interruption. A significant increase in the industry's worldwide manufacturing capacity, material interruption in raw material supply or electricity supply, or raw material price increases could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We may experience material decline in volumes and gross margins from the largest customer, Waste Management. In 2006, Waste Management was our largest customer, accounting for approximately 13% of sales and operating revenue. As discussed in Item 1. Business-Customers, the Supply Contract expired on December 31, 2006, and we entered into the Master Agreements with WMNSI, which will reduce the volume of business as well as the profitability of Waste Management commitments in 2007. We believe that the significant reduction in revenue and gross margin from Waste Management will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows if not offset by other new business opportunities or organic growth. To mitigate the impact of this change in business with Waste Management, we are pursuing other business, including our newly acquired replicated grass technology business and storm water retention business, as well as reducing the current cost structure. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our customers generally may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Except for the Master Agreements with WMNSI, our contracts are entered into on a project-by-project basis, and our customers do not have ongoing contractual obligations to purchase anything from us. If a significant number of our customers choose to terminate their contracts or to not enter into new contracts with us, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. In addition, for similar reasons, our contract backlog is not necessarily indicative of future sales, and the estimated size of any contract is not necessarily indicative of the profitability of that contract. 14 Our profitability is subject to inherent risks because of the fixed nature of almost all of our contracts. Substantially all of our customer contracts, particularly our installation contracts, are fixed-price contracts with commencement of performance dates spread throughout the year. Under a fixed-price contract, the customer agrees to pay a specified price for our performance of the entire contract. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Also, inclement or hazardous weather conditions can result in substantial delays in installation and additional expenses. Due to these factors, it is possible that we will not be able to perform our obligations under fixed price contracts without incurring additional expenses that we are unable to pass through to our customers. If we were to significantly underestimate the cost of one or more significant contracts (including as a result of subsequent increases in resin prices) or experience greater expenses than anticipated at the time of contracting, the resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We sell our products in a very competitive marketplace. The principal resin types that we use in our products are high-density polyethylene and linear low density polyethylene. We compete both with companies that use the same raw materials that we do and with companies that use different raw materials. Additionally, companies that manufacture geosynthetic products who are not currently competing with us may decide to do so in the future. Competition is based on product performance, installation capability, quality and pricing. Pricing remains very competitive with excess capacity in the industry impacting margins. Moreover, our current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial resources, name recognition, research and development, marketing and human resources than we have. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are better than our products. These companies may also prove to be more successful than we are in marketing and selling these products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with any of these companies. Increased competition as to any of our products could result in price reduction, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our business, prospects, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations that could harm our revenues and profitability. We have significant operations in Europe, Canada, Thailand, Chile and Egypt. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, including: ->difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; ->foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; ->tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; ->general economic conditions, political unrest and terrorist’s attacks in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; ->exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions; ->difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; ->import and export license requirements; ->changes in tariffs and taxes; ->restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; ->intellectual property protection difficulties; and ->complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, many of which conflict with U.S. laws. 15 In addition, foreign operations involve uncertainties arising from local business practices, cultural considerations and international political and trade tensions. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage effectively these risks or that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business, financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenues, and incur a significant portion of our expenses, in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales from the international operations will be reduced because the applicable local currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and technologies could impede our future growth and adversely affect our competitiveness. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to consider acquiring complementary businesses. Our ProGreen asset acquisition in October 2006 was consistent with this growth strategy. Currently, we do not have any other commitments or agreements relating to any material acquisitions. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: ->greater than expected costs and management time and effort involved in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; ->risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; ->potential disruption of our ongoing business and difficulty in maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; ->entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; ->the inability to successfully integrate the services, products and personnel of any acquisition into our operations; ->a need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses; and ->realizing little, if any, return on our investment. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, our growth may be hindered. Our success will largely depend on maintaining our staff of qualified professionals. The market for qualified professionals is competitive, and we may not continue to be successful in our efforts to attract and retain these professionals. In particular, our senior executives have considerable industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our future operations therefore could be harmed if any of our senior executives or other key personnel ceased working for us. Our future operations could also be harmed if we are unable to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales, installation and marketing personnel. Our product deliveries and installations may fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors that may adversely affect the financial results and cash flows. The greatest volume of geosynthetic product deliveries and installations typically occur during the summer and fall, which results in seasonal fluctuations of revenue. Often, scheduled deliveries are subject to delays at the customers' requests to correspond with customers' annual budgetary and permitting cycles. We may not be able to use our manufacturing capacity at our various locations to mitigate the impact of seasonal fluctuation on our manufacturing, delivery and installation schedules. Substantial fluctuations in our operations could significantly limit our cash flow and therefore our ability to service our debt, including the senior notes. 16 Product liability and indemnification claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our ability to maintain insurance may be limited, and our coverage limits may not be sufficient for all claims. Our products are used in, among other things, containment systems for the prevention of groundwater contamination. Our products are also used in significant public works projects. Accordingly, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims (including claims for strict liability and negligence) and claims for breach of contract in the event that the failure of our products or our installation services results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, damage to the environment and/or personal injury. We agree in most cases to indemnify the site owner, general contractor and others for certain damages resulting from our negligence and that of our employees. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs to defend product liability and breach of contract claims or that we will not experience any material product liability losses or indemnification obligations in the future. Such costs, losses and obligations may have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Although we maintain insurance within ranges of coverage consistent with industry practice, this insurance may not be available at economically feasible premiums and may not be sufficient to cover all such losses. Our insurance policies are subject to large deductibles. The outcome of legal actions and claims against us or that are otherwise incidental to our business may have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may experience significant warranty claims. We provide our customers of our geosynthetic products and related services with limited material warranties on our products and limited installation warranties for our workmanship. Our limited installation warranties are typically 1 to 5 years but occasionally extend up to 20 years. Our product warranties are typically 5 years but occasionally extend up to 20 years. These limited warranties are generally limited to repair or replacement of defective products or workmanship, often on a prorated basis, up to the dollar amount of the original contract. In some foreign contracts, we may be required to provide the customer with specified contractual limited warranties as to material quality. Our product warranty liability in many foreign countries is dictated by local laws in addition to the warranty specified in the contracts. Several of our foreign subsidiaries sell products and installation services under competitively bid construction contracts. Significant warranty claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. A downturn in either the economy generally or the development of landfills in particular would negatively impact our business. Our primary business depends on a growing economy to stimulate demand for the types of projects in which our products are installed. In particular, a substantial portion of our business depends on the continued development of landfills. Landfill development could slow due to a general economic downturn, a change in laws and regulations regarding the development of landfills or from other factors. A downturn in the economy or any other development that adversely impacts the development of landfills could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Regulatory and technological changes may adversely affect us. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete. Our ability to anticipate changes in regulatory and technology standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in response to these changes may significantly impact our ability to grow and to remain competitive. For example, certain existing laws and regulations in the United States and foreign countries require developers of landfills and other handlers of certain waste to prevent groundwater contamination in a manner that our products are currently designed to provide. Changes in such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows if new requirements were not satisfied by our products. Also, a reduction in the enforcement of such laws and regulations could also materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to remain competitive or that certain of our products will not become obsolete. 17 We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations to which we are subject. We are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws governing the protection of the environment, the exposure of persons and property to hazardous substances and occupational health and safety. These laws regulate, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; the disposal of wastes and other substances into soil, air or water; and our obligations relating to the health and safety of our workers and the public. We are also required to obtain and comply with environmental permits for certain operations. We cannot assure you that we are at all times in complete compliance with all environmental laws and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned. In some instances, such a fine or sanction could be material and could include monetary penalties or the shut-down of a facility. Certain environmental requirements, and the interpretation of those requirements by regulators and courts, might also become more stringent over time. We therefore cannot assure you that we will not incur material environmental costs or liabilities in the future. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Because of the nature of our business, changes in environmental laws could have a material detrimental effect on our business. We are also subject to laws governing the cleanup of contaminated property. Under these laws, we could be held liable for costs and damages relating to contamination of our past or present facilities and at third party sites to which our facilities sent wastes or hazardous substances. The amount of such liability could be material. We cannot assure you that we will not have liability for such contamination, nor can we assure you that we will not experience an accident or become liable for any other contamination that may have occurred in the past (including such liability to buyers of properties or businesses that we have sold). Our substantial level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding approximately $179.9 million of total indebtedness, including approximately $29.6 million of secured indebtedness. The high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including the following: ->it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the senior notes; ->our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; ->we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the senior notes and other indebtedness, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes such as capital expenditures; ->we may be limited in our ability to borrow additional funds; ->we may be limited in our ability to obtain bonds needed to bid on or perform certain installation contracts; ->we may have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and ->we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We expect to utilize cash flow from our operations to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our debt. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes, and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough liquidity, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, including the senior notes, sell assets or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our senior credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes, may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. 18 The indenture governing the senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness, including our senior credit facility, impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may limit our ability to make payments on the senior notes or prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain corporate actions. The indenture governing the senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to take certain actions including our ability to: ->incur additional indebtedness; ->create liens or other encumbrances; ->pay dividends or make certain other payments, investments, loans and guarantees; and ->sell or otherwise dispose of assets and merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests. For more information, see “Item 7. - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Borrowing Arrangements”. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet these financial ratios and financial condition tests. Our failure to comply with these obligations could cause an event of default under our senior credit facility. If an event of default occurs, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, including accrued and unpaid interest, under our senior credit facility to be immediately due, and the lenders could foreclose upon the assets securing our senior credit facility. In that event, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to repay all of our obligations, including the senior notes. We may not be able to satisfy our obligations to the holders of the senior notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a "change of control" (as defined in the indenture governing the senior notes) each holder of the senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase the outstanding senior notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of repurchase. Our failure to purchase, or give notice of purchase of, the senior notes would be a default under the indenture governing the senior notes, which would in turn be a default under our senior credit facility. If a change of control occurs, it is possible that we may not have sufficient assets at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of senior notes or to satisfy all obligations under our senior credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes. In order to satisfy our obligations, we could seek to refinance the indebtedness under our senior credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders or holders of the senior notes. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The principal stockholder of GEO Holdings controls us and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take actions with which you as a holder of senior notes may disagree or which might not be in your best interests. We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of GEO Holdings. CHS IV owns substantially all of the issued and outstanding common stock of GEO Holdings, and members of our senior management hold options exercisable for approximately 10% of the common stock of GEO Holdings, determined on a fully-diluted basis. Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement that GEO Holdings entered into with CHS IV, certain co-investors and certain members of our senior management, CHS IV has the right to appoint up to three of GEO Holdings' four directors. GEO Holdings has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, appoint new management and approve any action requiring the approval of our stockholders. The directors have the authority to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional indebtedness and the declaration of dividends. In addition, transactions may be pursued that could enhance the investment of the holders of GEO Holdings equity while involving risks to your interests. It is possible that the holders of GEO Holdings equity will exercise control over us in a manner that is adverse to the interests of the holders of the senior notes. See "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" and "Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” for additional information. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. ITEM 