Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factors Our business and financial results and condition may be adversely affected by risk factors described below, as well as the other risks discussed in this Form 10-K. Our substantial level of indebtedness may limit our cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. As a result of the financing transactions in connection with the acquisition of Royal Group, we have substantial indebtedness. At December 31, 2006, under our revolving credit facility we had a maximum borrowing capacity of $375.0 million, and net of outstanding letters of credit for $99.7 million and current borrowings of $25.9 million resulting in availability under the revolving credit facility of $249.4 million. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations on the 9.5 percent, 10.75 percent, and 7.125 percent notes; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our senior secured credit facility, exposing us to the risk of defaulting on our secured debt, which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, which, in turn, would negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate and will operate; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates of our senior secured credit facility are at variable rates; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. We expect to obtain the funds to pay our expenses, fund working capital and capital expenditures, and to pay the interest on our 9.5 percent, 10.75 percent, and 7.125 percent notes, our senior secured credit facility and our other debt from our cash flow from our operations and from available borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and from sales of assets. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industry in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and to meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell assets or borrow additional amounts. We may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facility and the indentures relating to our notes, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The failure to generate sufficient cash flow or to achieve such alternatives could reduce the value of the notes and limit our ability to pay principal of and interest on the notes. 12 Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. However, despite these restrictions, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · incur liens; · make capital expenditures; · make investments and sell assets, including the stock of subsidiaries; · pay dividends and make other distributions; · purchase Georgia Gulf stock; · engage in business activities unrelated to our current business; · enter into transactions with affiliates; or · consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. We cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. We sought and obtained a waiver due to our failure to meet the required interest coverage ratio at December 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will not breach these covenants in the future resulting in a default. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable immediately and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Also, any acceleration of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility will constitute a default under some of our other secured indebtedness. Despite the limitation on our ability to incur additional indebtedness imposed by the terms of our senior secured credit facility and our indentures for our notes, these agreements do not prohibit us from incurring substantial indebtedness in the future, and we may do so. If new debt is added to our current indebtedness levels, the risks related to our indebtedness, including the notes, could increase. The chemical industry is cyclical and volatile, experiencing alternating periods of tight supply and overcapacity, and the building products industry is also cyclical. This cyclicality could adversely impact our capacity utilization and cause fluctuations in our results of operations. Our historical operating results for our chemical businesses have tended to reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the chemical industry. Historically, periods of tight supply have resulted in increased prices and profit margins and have been followed by periods of substantial capacity addition, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. A number of our chemical products are highly dependent on markets that are particularly cyclical, such as the construction, paper and pulp, and automotive markets. As a result of changes in demand for our products, our operating rates and earnings fluctuate significantly, not only from year to year but also from quarter to quarter, depending on factors such as feedstock costs, transportation costs, and supply and demand for the product produced at the facility during that period. As a result, individual facilities may operate below or above rated capacities in any period. We may idle a facility for an extended period of time because an oversupply of a certain 13 product or a lack of demand for that product makes production uneconomical. Facility shutdown and subsequent restart expenses may adversely affect quarterly results when these events occur. In addition, a temporary shutdown may become permanent, resulting in a write-down or write-off of the related assets. Capacity expansions or the announcement of these expansions have generally led to a decline in the pricing of our chemical products in the affected product line. We cannot assure that future growth in product demand will be sufficient to utilize any additional capacity. In addition, the building products industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in national and local economic and other conditions such as employment levels, demographic trends, availability of financing, interest rates and consumer confidence, which factors could negatively affect the demand for and pricing of our building products. For example, if interest rates increase, the ability of prospective buyers to finance purchases of home improvement products and invest in new real estate could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial performance. Similarly, a prolonged recession affecting the residential construction industry could also adversely impact our financial performance. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials costs, and other external factors beyond our control, as well as downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home sectors of the economy, can cause wide fluctuations in our margins. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials, and other costs, may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing costs, and energy costs, in particular electricity and fuel, represent a component of the costs to manufacture building products. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of major capacity additions or significant facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw materials prices, demand for our products, product prices, sales volumes and margins. These factors include general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances, and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to pass through price increases in energy costs and raw materials, we have been unsuccessful in doing so in some circumstances in the past and there can be no assurance that we can do so in the future. Additionally, our building products business is impacted by changes in the North American home repair and remodeling sectors, as well as the new construction sector, which may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends and consumer confidence. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our building products, which could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, with some of our competitors having greater financial and other resources than we have; competition may adversely affect our results of operations. The commodity chemical industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources and less debt than us. Moreover, barriers to entry, other than capital availability, are low in most product segments of our commodity chemical business. Capacity additions or technological advances by existing or future competitors also create greater competition, particularly in pricing. We cannot provide assurance that we will have access to the financing necessary to upgrade our facilities in response to technological advances or other competitive developments. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of Royal Group, we compete with other national and international manufacturers of vinyl-based building and home improvement products. Some of these 14 companies are larger and have greater financial resources and less indebtedness than us. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than us. Some of these competitors, who compete with our building product lines, may also be able to compete more aggressively in pricing and could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Many of our competitors have operated in the building products industry for a long time. Our management has limited experience in the manufacturing or marketing of building products and thus, may be at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, our building products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, and wood and aluminum in windows. An increase in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose customers and lead to decreases in net sales. To the extent we lose customers in the renovation and remodeling markets, we must market to the new construction market, which historically has experienced more fluctuations in demand. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and assets; compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations on and ownership of real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety regulation, including laws and regulations related to air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal and remediation of contaminated sites, at both the national and local levels in the U.S. As a result of our acquisition of Royal Group, we are subject to such regulations in Canada as well. The nature of the chemical and building products industries exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury, including, in the case of commodity chemicals, potential releases into the environment. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of use, transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of the storage and disposal of wastes. We have and must continue to incur operating and capital costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations arising under these laws. Also, some environmental laws, such as the federal Superfund statute, may impose joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste, transported the waste to the disposal site, selected the disposal site, or presently or formerly owned, leased or operated the disposal site or a site otherwise contaminated by hazardous substances. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to bear all of the costs of cleanup, regardless of fault, legality of the original disposal or ownership of the disposal site. A number of environmental liabilities have been associated with the facilities at Lake Charles, Louisiana that we acquired as part of the acquisition of the vinyls business of CONDEA Vista Company (“CONDEA Vista,” which is now known as Sasol North America, Inc.) and which may be designated as Superfund sites. Although CONDEA Vista retained financial responsibility for certain environmental liabilities that relate to the facilities that we acquired from it and that arose before the closing of our acquisition of the vinyls business of CONDEA Vista in November 1999, we cannot assure you that CONDEA Vista will be able to satisfy its obligations in this regard, particularly in light of the long period of time in which environmental liabilities may arise under the environmental laws. If CONDEA Vista fails to fulfill its obligation regarding their environmental liabilities, then we could be held responsible. Furthermore, any environmental liabilities relating to Royal Group will not have the benefit of any third party indemnification, including liabilities resulting from Royal Group’s operations prior to our acquisition of the company. Our policy is to accrue costs relating to environmental matters when it is probable that these costs will be required and can be reasonably estimated. However, estimated costs for future environmental compliance and remediation may be too low or we may not be able to quantify the potential costs. We 15 expect to be continually subjected to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of these laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. We anticipate continued compliance will require increased capital expenditures and increased operating costs. Any increase in these costs could adversely affect our financial performance. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing may occur, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing as well as building products manufacturing, and the related use, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes may occur in our operations. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on Georgia Gulf as a whole. These hazards include: · pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; · explosions and fires; · inclement weather and natural disasters; · mechanical failure; · unscheduled downtime; · labor difficulties; · transportation interruptions; · remediation complications; · terrorist acts; and · chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage, any of which could lead to claims or liability under the environmental laws. Additionally, individuals could seek damages for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals at our facilities or to chemicals otherwise owned, controlled or manufactured by us. We are also subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business. We face potential product liability claims relating to the production and manufacture of building products. As a result of our acquisition of Royal Group, we are exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our building products do not meet customer expectations. Although we intend to maintain insurance for products liability claims, the amount and scope of such insurance may not be adequate to cover a products liability claim that is successfully asserted against us. In addition, products liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage against possible products liability claims at commercially reasonable levels, or at all. 16 We rely heavily on third party transportation, which subjects us to risks that we cannot control; these risks may adversely affect our operations. We rely heavily on railroads and shipping companies to transport raw materials to the manufacturing facilities and to ship finished product to customers. These transport operations are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards. If we are delayed or unable to ship finished product or unable to obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies’ failure to operate properly, or if there were significant changes in the cost of these services, we may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship our goods, which could result in an adverse effect on our revenues and costs of operations. We rely on a limited number of outside suppliers for specified feedstocks and services. We obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from a few key suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials. Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of the vinyls business of CONDEA Vista in 1999, we entered into agreements with CONDEA Vista to provide specified feedstocks for the Lake Charles facility. This facility is dependent upon CONDEA Vista’s infrastructure for services such as wastewater and ground water treatment, site remediation, and fire water supply. Any failure of CONDEA Vista to perform its obligations under those agreements could adversely affect the operation of the affected facilities and our results of operations. The agreements relating to these feedstocks and services had initial terms of one to ten years. Most of these agreements have been automatically renewed, but may be terminated by CONDEA Vista after specified notice periods. If we were required to obtain an alternate source for these feedstocks or services, we may not be able to obtain pricing on as favorable terms. Additionally, we may be forced to pay additional transportation costs or to invest in capital projects for pipelines or alternate facilities to accommodate railcar or other delivery or to replace other services. Implementation of New ERP Information Systems We are highly dependent on our information systems infrastructure in order to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. Key to the success of our strategy to drive greater productivity and cost savings was the implementation of phase I in the first quarter of 2006 of a new multiple phase ERP information system. Additionally, when acquired, Royal Group was in the process of implementing new ERP systems. If we experience significant problems with the implementation of these systems, the resulting disruption could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. The transition to our new ERP systems involves numerous risks, including: · difficulties in integrating the systems with our current operations; · potential delay in the processing of customer orders for shipment of products; · diversion of management’s attention away from normal daily business operations; · increased demand on our operations support personnel; · initial dependence on unfamiliar systems while training personnel in its use; and · increased operating expenses resulting from training, conversion and transition support activities. 17 We continue to pursue the disposition of certain assets of Royal Group and may pursue asset acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures, and other transactions that may impact our results of operations. We intend to continue to pursue the disposition of certain assets of Royal Group and anticipate that proceeds would be used to repay some of our indebtedness. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of these assets at anticipated prices, or at all, or that any such sale will occur during our anticipated time frame. A failure to dispose of these assets would mean any indebtedness that could have been paid down would have to remain outstanding unless it could be repaid from funds generated from operations. In addition, we may engage in additional business combinations, purchases or sales of assets, or contractual arrangements or joint ventures. To the extent permitted under our senior secured credit facility, our indentures and our other debt agreements, some of these transactions may be financed by additional borrowings by us. If the expected efficiencies and synergies of the transactions are not fully realized, our results of operations could be adversely affected, at least in the short term, because of the costs associated with such transactions. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. Our participation in joint ventures exposes us to risks of shared control. We own a 50 percent interest in a manufacturing joint venture, the remainder of which is controlled by PPG Industries, Inc., which also supplies chlorine to the facility operated by the joint venture. Additionally, our window and door profiles operations have strategic joint venture arrangements with several customers with respect to a number of extrusion lines. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our operations may be adversely affected or we may be required to increase our level of commitment to the joint venture. Also, differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failure to agree on major issues. Any differences in our views or problems with respect to the operations of our joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our consolidated financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the Canadian dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, as a result of the acquisition of Royal Group, weaknesses in various currencies might occur in one or many of such currencies over time. We plan to use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. In addition, we are exposed to volatility in interest rates. When appropriate, we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. We cannot assure you, however, that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. 18 We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights for our building products. Any threat to, or impairment of, these rights could cause us to incur costs to defend these rights. As a manufacturer and marketer of branded products, in our building products, we rely on trademarks and service marks to protect our brands. We have a significant number of issued patents for our technologies. These protections may not adequately safeguard our intellectual property and we may incur significant costs to defend these intellectual property rights, which may harm our operating results. There is a risk that third parties, including our current competitors, will claim that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. These third parties may bring infringement claims against us or our customers. Regardless of its merit, an infringement claim against us could require significant management time and effort, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays. Further, any claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, which may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. Pending investigations of, and pending and threatened lawsuits against, Royal Group could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Royal Group is currently under investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (the “RCMP”), the Ontario Securities Commission (the “OSC”) and the SEC regarding its prior public disclosures, including financial and accounting matters. The OSC is also conducting a regulatory investigation of Royal Group, principally in connection with certain related party transactions. Royal Group and certain of its former officers and former or current directors are named defendants in class actions brought by Royal Group shareholders and additional suits have been threatened. These class action complaints include allegations of non-disclosure of certain related party transactions. In October 2005, Royal Group advised OSC staff, the RCMP and SEC staff of emails and documents authored by a former finance employee of Royal Group that relate to certain financial accounting and disclosure matters. Royal Group understands that the SEC staff made a referral to the U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division, in connection with those documents. The shareholders in the above-mentioned class action filed an amended complaint in connection with these emails. Further, Royal Group is the subject of a criminal investigation being conducted by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the “Department of Justice”), which focuses on alleged price fixing in the window coverings industry. Royal Group has also been contacted by counsel for a group of civil plaintiffs (direct purchasers) who have indicated their intention to commence litigation against the company pertaining to this matter. Damages, liabilities and costs Royal Group will incur in respect of each of the foregoing investigations, lawsuits or claims may exceed the amounts anticipated by us in respect thereof, and to the extent they do, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, on a consolidated basis with Royal Group’s, will be materially adversely affected. Our ability to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is dependent upon our implementation of effective internal controls for Royal Group. Pursuant to Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and to provide an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting consists of procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are properly authorized, recorded and reported, and assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper use. Although Royal Group is not yet required to be a part of our assessment and reporting of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, management has assessed significant deficiencies in its financial reporting structure as of December 31, 2006, including an accounting function that lacks clear organization and 19 accountability, insufficient qualified accounting professionals, insufficient review and supervision, and financial reporting systems that do not share a common platform and that require extensive manual interventions. In addition, management concluded that certain aspects of Royal Group’s historical disclosure controls and procedures need improvement, including the ability to produce financial statements on a timely basis. We must ensure effective internal control over financial reporting for Royal Group’s operations and, in so doing, we may identify additional areas requiring improvements. As the aforementioned control issues are remedied or to the extent that internal control weaknesses that require remediation are identified, we may be required to incur expenditures or costs that, if significant, could adversely affect our operating results. We have substantial effort ahead of us to complete the improvements and required management assessment regarding Royal Group’s internal control system and financial processes, information systems, assessment of control design, remediation of the deficiencies discussed above, and any other deficiencies that may arise out of this process. These efforts may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, including achieving cost savings and operational efficiencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the required management assessment by our reporting deadline. An inability to complete and document this assessment could result in a scope limitation qualification or disclaimer by our auditors on their attestation of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if a material weakness were to be identified with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, we would not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, which could result in the inability of our external auditors to deliver an unqualified report, or any report, on our internal control over financial reporting. In the event that, due to the complexity of certain internal control systems, the procedures, certification and assessment required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are not completed by the required deadline in respect of our 2007 fiscal year, or our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, our reputation, financial condition and the value of our securities could be adversely affected. Furthermore, ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. We may have difficulties with our periodic reports as a result of the acquisition of Royal Group. Royal Group was late in reporting its 2005 annual and first quarter 2006 financial results. These late filings were due to, among other things, the complexity of accounting for numerous divestitures and write-downs related thereto, the segmentation of financial results, the sale process and various regulatory investigations described above. Similar events could result in delays or inability to prepare and file our reports timely with the SEC. Further, because of our ongoing evaluation of assets and potential dispositions of excess or redundant facilities, we may have future asset impairments, which could also delay our financial reporting. This was further demonstrated by our having to file an extension under Rule 12b-25 for this annual report on Form 10-K and missing that extended filing deadline. We may encounter difficulties in integrating Royal Group’s operations with our operations, which may result in our failure to realize expected cost savings and operational efficiencies and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We cannot be sure that we will be able to integrate successfully Royal Group’s and our operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems. The integration of any business we acquire, including Royal Group, may be disruptive to our business and may result in a significant diversion of management attention and operational resources. Additionally, we may suffer a loss of key employees, customers or 20 suppliers, loss of revenues, increases in costs or other difficulties. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve anticipated cost savings and operational efficiencies in amounts anticipated or on our anticipated timetable. Further, management’s attention may be diverted by potential dispositions. As part of our strategy in acquiring Royal Group, we have identified opportunities to improve profitability and reduce costs. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part, the expected cost savings or operational efficiencies from these strategies when expected, or at all. Furthermore, we may continue to incur significant one-time costs in connection with our integration of Royal Group’s operations with our existing business, including costs related to facility consolidation, headcount reduction, operational improvements, professional fees and related transactional expenses. We expect to incur one-time costs in connection with our anticipated annual cost savings and may achieve operational efficiencies. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K and other communications to stockholders may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, our outlook for future periods, supply and demand, pricing trends and market forces within the chemical industry, cost reduction strategies and their results, planned capital expenditures, long-term objectives of management and other statements of expectations concerning matters that are not historical facts. Predictions of future results contain a measure of uncertainty. Actual results could differ materially due to various factors. Factors that could change forward-looking statements are, among others, those contained in the “Risk Factors” section above as well as changes in the general economy, changes in demand for our products or increases in overall industry capacity that could affect production volumes and/or pricing, changes and/or cyclicality in the industries to which our products are sold, availability and pricing of raw materials, technological changes affecting production, difficulty in plant operations and product transportation, governmental and environmental regulations and other unforeseen circumstances. A number of these factors are discussed in this Form 10-K and in our other periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 21 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 