Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition and results from operations may be adversely affected by the risks described below as well as the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our business financial condition and results from operations may be materially adversely impacted by risks and developments not currently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial. The chemical industry is cyclical and volatile, experiencing alternating periods of tight supply and overcapacity, and the building products industry is also cyclical. This cyclicality adversely impacts our capacity utilization and causes fluctuations in our results of operations. Our historical operating results for our chemical businesses have tended to reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the chemical industry. Historically, periods of tight supply have resulted in increased prices and profit margins and have been followed by periods of substantial capacity addition, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. A number of our chemical products are highly dependent on markets that are particularly cyclical, such as the building and construction, paper and pulp, and automotive markets. As a result of changes in demand for our products, our operating rates 11 Table of Contents and earnings fluctuate significantly, not only from year to year, but also from quarter to quarter, depending on factors such as feedstock costs, transportation costs, and supply and demand for the product produced at the facility during that period. As a result, individual facilities may operate below or above rated capacities in any period. We may idle a facility for an extended period of time because an oversupply of a certain product or a lack of demand for that product makes production uneconomical. Facility shutdown and subsequent restart expenses may adversely affect periodic results when these events occur. In addition, a temporary shutdown may become permanent, resulting in a write-down or write-off of the related assets. Capacity expansions or the announcement of these expansions have generally led to a decline in the pricing of our chemical products in the affected product line. We cannot assure you that future growth in product demand will be sufficient to utilize any additional capacity. In addition, the building products industry is cyclical and seasonal and is significantly affected by changes in national and local economic and other conditions such as employment levels, demographic trends, availability of financing, interest rates and consumer confidence, which factors could negatively affect the demand for and pricing of our building products. For example, if interest rates increase, the ability of prospective buyers to finance purchases of home improvement products and invest in new real estate could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial performance. In response to the recent significant decline in the market for our building and home improvement products, we have closed facilities and sold certain businesses and assets. We are continuing to take further actions and monitor cost control initiatives; however, it is uncertain as to when demand will return, or whether demand for our products will decline, and when these businesses will return to significant and sustained profitability. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our senior secured notes and our other indebtedness or force us to take other actions to satisfy these obligations. We have substantial indebtedness which requires significant interest payments, including interest payments of approximately $65 million in 2011, based on interest rates in effect at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of $689.9 million, including $500.0 million outstanding under our 9.0 percent notes, nil million drawn under our ABL Revolver that provides for a maximum of $300 million of revolving credit, subject to borrowing base availability and other terms and conditions, $112.4 million of lease financing obligations, $22.1 million of senior unsecured notes, $41.4 million of senior subordinated notes and $16.9 million of other debt. We plan to early repay the $22.1 million of senior unsecured notes in 2011. As of December 31, 2010, we had $264.8 million of undrawn availability under our ABL Revolver, after giving effect to $20.2 million of outstanding letters of credit. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, exposing us to the risk of default, which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, which, in turn, would negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and working capital; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; 12 Table of Contents •expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates on borrowings under our ABL Revolver are variable; •increase our cost of borrowing; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds. If our cash flows are not sufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. While we believe that we should be able to meet the requirements of our debt agreements, we may be unable to do so, particularly if business conditions deteriorate to a material degree, or we suffer significant interruption of our operations. We principally operate in the North American chemicals and building products markets, which have suffered a substantial decline as a result of the severe downturn in the U.S. housing industry and the general worldwide recession. Further deteriorating business conditions could result in declines in our accounts receivable and inventories thereby lowering the availability of borrowings under the ABL Revolver. In any of these events, we would need to seek an amendment to, or a waiver or refinancing of, our debt, although there can be no assurance that we could do so, and even if we do, it is likely that such relief would significantly increase our costs through additional fees or increased rates and may only last for a specified period, potentially necessitating additional amendments, waivers or refinancing in the future. In the event we do not maintain compliance with the covenants under the ABL Revolver, our lenders under such facility could cease making loans to us and accelerate and declare due all outstanding loans under the facility. However, if we satisfy the various restrictive conditions in our debt agreements that address our ability to incur additional indebtedness, and we incur additional new debt, the risks associated with our high level of indebtedness could intensify. Our ABL Revolver and the indenture governing the 9.0 percent notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The agreements that govern the terms of our debt, including our ABL Revolver and the indenture that governs the 9.0 percent notes, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •incur liens; •make investments and sell assets, including the stock of subsidiaries; •pay dividends and make other distributions; •purchase our stock; •engage in business activities unrelated to our current business; •enter into transactions with affiliates; or •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable immediately and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, there are limitations on our ability to incur the full $300.0 million of commitments under our ABL Revolver. Borrowings under our ABL Revolver are limited by a specified borrowing base consisting of a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and inventory, less customary reserves. In addition, if our availability under the ABL Revolver falls below a certain amount, we will be subject to compliance with a minimum fixed charge maintenance covenant, which will require us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0. Our ability to comply with the required fixed charge coverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you we will meet this ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our ABL Revolver. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials costs, and other external factors beyond our control, as well as downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors of the economy, can cause wide fluctuations in our margins. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials, and other costs, may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing costs, and energy costs, in particular electricity and fuel, represent a component of the costs to manufacture building products. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of major capacity additions or significant facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw materials prices, demand for our products, product prices, sales volumes and margins. These factors include general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors' actions, international events and circumstances, and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to pass through price increases in energy costs and raw materials, we have been unsuccessful in doing so in some circumstances in the past and there can be no assurance that we can do so in the future. Additionally, our business is impacted by changes in the North American home repair and remodeling sectors, as well as the new construction sector, which may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends, consumer confidence, increases in interest rates and availability of consumer financing for home repair and remodeling projects as well as availability of financing for new home purchases. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our products, which could cause our net sales and net income to decrease and require us to recognize additional impairments of our assets. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, with some of our competitors having greater financial and other resources than we have; competition may adversely affect our results of operations. The commodity chemical industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources and less debt than us. Moreover, barriers to entry, other than capital availability, are low in most product segments of our commodity chemical business. Capacity additions or technological advances by existing or future competitors also create greater competition, particularly in pricing. We cannot provide assurance that we will have access to the financing necessary to upgrade our facilities in response to technological advances or other competitive developments. In addition, we compete with other national and international manufacturers of vinyl-based building and home improvement products. Some of these companies are larger and have greater financial resources and less debt than us. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than us. Some of these competitors, who compete with our building product lines, may also be able to compete more aggressively in pricing and could take a 14 Table of Contents greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Many of our competitors have operated in the building products industry for a long time. Additionally, our building products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, wood and aluminum in windows and iron and cement in pipe and fittings. An increase in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers and alternative building materials could cause us to lose customers and lead to decreases in net sales. To the extent we lose customers in the renovation and remodeling markets, we must market to the new home construction market, which historically has experienced more fluctuations in demand. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and assets; compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations on and ownership of real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety regulation, including laws and regulations related to air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal and remediation of contaminated sites, at both the national and local levels in the U.S. We are also subject to similar regulations in Canada. The nature of the chemical and building products industries exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury, including, in the case of commodity chemicals, potential releases into the environment. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of use, transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of the storage and disposal of wastes. We have and must continue to incur operating and capital costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations arising under these laws. Also, some environmental laws, such as the federal Superfund statute, may impose joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste, transported the waste to the disposal site, selected the disposal site, or presently or formerly owned, leased or operated the disposal site or a site otherwise contaminated by hazardous substances. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to bear all of the costs of cleanup, regardless of fault, legality of the original disposal or ownership of the disposal site. A number of environmental liabilities have been associated with the facilities at Lake Charles, Louisiana that we acquired as part of the acquisition of the vinyls business of CONDEA Vista Company ("CONDEA Vista," which is now known as Sasol North America, Inc.) and which may be designated as Superfund sites. Although CONDEA Vista retained financial responsibility for certain environmental liabilities that relate to the facilities that we acquired from it and that arose before the closing of our acquisition in November 1999, there can be no assurance that CONDEA Vista will be able to satisfy its obligations in this regard, particularly in light of the long period of time in which environmental liabilities may arise under the environmental laws. If CONDEA Vista fails to fulfill its obligation regarding these environmental liabilities, then we could be held responsible. Furthermore, we severally are responsible for, and do not have indemnification for, any environmental liabilities relating to other acquisitions, including several liabilities resulting from Royal Group's operations prior to our acquisition of the company. Our policy is to accrue costs relating to environmental matters when it is probable that these costs will be required and can be reasonably estimated. However, estimated costs for future environmental compliance and remediation may be too low or we may not be able to quantify the potential costs. We expect to be continually subjected to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of these laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. We anticipate continued compliance will require increased capital expenditures and increased operating costs. Any increase in these costs could adversely affect our financial condition and performance. 15 Table of Contents Concerns related to climate change are continuing to grow leading to efforts to limit greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the EPA issued rules requiring reporting of GHG emissions in the U.S. beginning in 2010. In addition, the United States Congress is considering legislation which may require companies such as Georgia Gulf to restrict or control GHG emissions. Also, the United States has recently engaged in discussions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change at Copenhagen. Such discussions may result in international treaties requiring additional controls on GHG emissions. Our non-U.S. manufacturing facilities are all in Canada, which has adopted the Kyoto Protocol which seeks the reduction of GHG emissions. The cost impact of complying with such legislation, regulation or international negotiations would depend on the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. For example, the impact of certain proposed legislation relating to GHG emissions would depend on factors such as the specific GHG limits imposed and the timing of the implementation of these requirements. The EPA regulatory requirement to report GHG emissions may result in the need to install or modify monitoring equipment at certain of our U.S. manufacturing facilities to monitor GHG emissions. The potential impact of these and related future international, legislative or regulatory actions on our operations cannot be predicted at this time but could be significant. Such impacts would include the potential for significant compliance costs, including capital expenditures, and could result in operating restrictions. Any increase in the costs related to these initiatives could adversely affect our financial condition and performance. The heightened interest in climate change issues could have the potential to affect business operations. There is a potential for indirect consequences of climate change regulation on business trends. In addition, some have alleged an association with changes in weather patterns on climate change. The Company may, in the future, be required to expend money to defend claims based on the alleged association of climate change with changes in weather patterns. Hazards associated with manufacturing may occur, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing as well as building products manufacturing, and the related use, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes may occur in our operations. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole. These hazards include: •pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; •explosions and fires; •inclement weather and natural disasters; •mechanical failure; •unscheduled downtime; •labor difficulties; •transportation interruptions; •remediation complications; •terrorist acts; and •chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage, any of which could lead to claims or liability under environmental laws. Additionally, individuals could seek damages for alleged personal injury or 16 Table of Contents property damage due to exposure to chemicals at our facilities or to chemicals otherwise owned, controlled or manufactured by us. We are also subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers' compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business. We face potential product liability claims relating to the production and manufacture of building products. We are exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our building products do not meet customer expectations. Although we maintain insurance for products liability claims, the amount and scope of such insurance may not be adequate to cover a products liability claim that is successfully asserted against us. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage against possible products liability claims at commercially reasonable levels, or at all. We rely heavily on third party transportation, which subjects us to risks that we cannot control; these risks may adversely affect our operations. We rely heavily on railroads, barges and other shipping companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing facilities and to ship finished product to customers. These transport operations are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards, as well as interstate transportation regulations. If we are delayed or unable to ship finished product or unable to obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if there were significant changes in the cost of these services, we may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship our goods, which could result in an adverse effect on our revenues and costs of operations. We rely on a limited number of outside suppliers for specified feedstocks and services. We obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from a few key suppliers. If any of these suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials. Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of the vinyls business of CONDEA Vista in 1999, we entered into agreements with CONDEA Vista to provide specified feedstocks for the Lake Charles facility. This facility is dependent upon CONDEA Vista's infrastructure for services such as wastewater and ground water treatment, site remediation, and fire water supply. Any failure of CONDEA Vista to perform its obligations under those agreements could adversely affect the operation of the affected facilities and our results of operations. The agreements relating to these feedstocks and services had initial terms of one to ten years. Most of these agreements have been automatically renewed, but may be terminated by CONDEA Vista after specified notice periods. If we were required to obtain an alternate source for these feedstocks or services, we may not be able to obtain pricing on as favorable terms. Additionally, we may be forced to pay additional transportation costs or to invest in capital projects for pipelines or alternate facilities to accommodate railcar or other delivery or to replace other services. While we believe that our relationships with our key suppliers are strong, any vendor may choose, subject to existing contracts, to modify our relationship due to general economic concerns or concerns relating to the vendor or us, at any time. Any significant change in the terms that we have with our key suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity, as could significant additional requirements from our suppliers that we provide them additional security in the form of prepayments or with letters of credit. 17 Table of Contents Operation on multiple ERP information systems may negatively impact our operations. We are highly dependent on our information systems infrastructure in order to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, maintain regulatory compliance and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. We currently operate on multiple Enterprise Resource Planning, or ERP, information systems, which complicate our processing, reporting and analysis of business transactions and other information. Since we must process and reconcile our information from multiple systems, the chance of errors is increased and we may incur additional costs. Inconsistencies in the information from multiple ERP systems could adversely impact our ability to manage our business efficiently and may result in heightened risk to our ability to maintain our books and records and comply with regulatory requirements. Further, from time to time we may transition a portion of our operations from one of our ERP systems to another. The transition to a different ERP system involves numerous risks, including: •diversion of management's attention away from normal daily business operations; •increased demand on our operations support personnel; •initial dependence on unfamiliar systems while training personnel to use new systems; and •increased operating expenses resulting from training, conversion and transition support activities. We may pursue dispositions, asset acquisitions, and joint ventures, and other transactions that may impact our results of operations, including difficulties in integrating any acquired business operations, which may result in our failure to realize expected cost savings and operational efficiencies. We may enter into agreements to dispose of certain assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of these assets at any anticipated prices, or at all, or that any such sale will occur during any anticipated time frame. In addition, we may engage in additional business combinations, purchases or sales of assets, or contractual arrangements or joint ventures. To the extent permitted under our debt agreements, some of these transactions may be financed with additional borrowings by us. The integration of any business we acquire may be disruptive to our business and may result in a significant diversion of management attention and operational resources. Additionally, we may suffer a loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, loss of revenues, increases in costs or other difficulties. If the expected efficiencies and synergies of any transactions are not fully realized, our results of operations could be adversely affected, because of the costs associated with such transactions. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. Our participation in joint ventures exposes us to risks of shared control. We own a 50 percent interest in a manufacturing joint venture, the remainder of which is controlled by PPG Industries, Inc., which also supplies chlorine to the facility operated by the joint venture. We also have other joint ventures, such as our building products strategic joint venture arrangements with several customers. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan. In that case, our operations may be adversely affected or we may be required to increase our level of commitment to the joint venture. Also, differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failure to agree on major issues. Any differences in our views or problems with respect to the operations of our joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our consolidated financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the Canadian dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in various currencies might occur in one or many of such currencies over time. From time to time, we may use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. In addition, we are exposed to volatility in interest rates. When appropriate, we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. We cannot assure you, however, that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. We recently identified a material weakness in the area of accounting for income taxes. If the steps we have taken and expect to take to remediate this material weakness are not successful, the material weakness could result in a number of negative consequences. As described in more detail in Item 9A., Controls and Procedures, in this Form 10-K and in certain of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we recently identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, in the area of accounting for income taxes. Although our management has taken certain measures, and intends to take additional measures, to remediate this material weakness, if these measures are not successful, such material weakness could result in a number of negative consequences, including continued significant management time and attention, additional costs, future misstatements in our financial statements, our inability to timely meet financial statement reporting and filing obligations, a loss of confidence by investors in our reported financial information and a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K and other communications to stockholders may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, our outlook for future periods, our expectations regarding supply and demand, pricing trends and market forces within the chemical industry, cost reduction strategies and their results, planned capital expenditures, long-term objectives of management and other statements of expectations concerning matters that are not historical facts. Predictions of future results contain a measure of uncertainty. Actual results could differ materially due to various factors. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in, or implied by, forward-looking statements are, among others, those contained in the "Risk Factors" section above as well as continued compliance with covenants in our ABL Revolver and our indenture for our 9.0 percent notes, changes in the general economy, changes in demand for our products or increases in overall industry capacity that could affect production volumes and/or pricing, changes and/or cyclicality in the industries to which our products are sold, availability and pricing of raw materials, technological changes affecting production, difficulty in plant operations and product transportation, governmental and environmental regulations and other unforeseen circumstances. A number of these factors are discussed in this Form 10-K and in our other periodic filings with the SEC. 19 Table of Contents We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of a change in circumstances or otherwise. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Executive Officers of the Company The following is additional information regarding our executive officers as of March 10, 2011: Joel I. Beerman, 60, has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since February 1994. Joseph C. Breunig, 49 has served as Executive Vice President, Chemicals, since August 2010. Before then he was employed by BASF Corporation where since 2005, he held the position of Executive Vice President and President of Market and Business Development for North America. Paul D. Carrico, 60, has been a director and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since February, 2008. Before then, he had served as Vice President, Chemicals and Vinyls since October 2006, Vice President, Polymer Group from May 2005 until October 2006, and Business Manager, Resin Division from 1999, when he joined the Company, until May 2005. Mark J. Orcutt, 55, has served as Executive Vice President, Building Products since December 2008. Before then, he was employed by PPG Industries, Inc., most recently as Vice President Performance Glazing since 2003. Gregory C. Thompson, 55, has served as Chief Financial Officer since February 2008. Before then, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Invacare Corporation, a medical equipment manufacturer, since 2002. James L. Worrell, 57, has served as Vice President, Human Resources, since September 2006. Before then, Mr. Worrell served as the Director of Human Resources since 1993, prior to which he was a Manager of Human Resources since our inception. Executive officers are elected by, and serve at the pleasure of, the board of directors. 