Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. The chemicals industry is cyclical, seasonal and volatile, experiencing alternating periods of tight supply and overcapacity, and the building products industry is also cyclical and seasonal. This cyclicality adversely impacts our capacity utilization and causes fluctuations in our results of operations. The historical operating results for our chlorovinyls and aromatics chemical businesses have tended to reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the chemicals industry. Historically, periods of tight supply have resulted in increased prices and profit margins thereon and have been followed by periods of substantial capacity increase, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins for those products. A number of the products of our chlorovinyls and aromatics segments are highly dependent on markets that are particularly cyclical, such as the building and construction, paper and pulp and automotive markets. As a result of changes in demand for our products, our operating rates and earnings fluctuate significantly, not only from year to year, but also from quarter to quarter, depending on factors such as feedstock costs, transportation costs and supply and demand for the product produced at the facility during that period. In order to compensate for changes in demand, we have historically operated individual facilities below or above rated capacities in any period, and we expect to continue this practice in the future. We may idle a facility for an extended period of time because an oversupply of a certain product or a lack of demand for that product makes production uneconomical. Facility shutdown and subsequent restart expenses may adversely affect periodic results when these events occur. In addition, a temporary shutdown may become permanent, resulting in a write-down or write-off of the related assets. Industry-wide capacity expansions or the announcement of such expansions have generally led to a decline in the pricing of our chemical products in the affected product line. We cannot provide any assurances that future growth in product demand will be sufficient to utilize any additional capacity. In addition, the cyclical and seasonal nature of the building products industry, which is significantly affected by changes in national and local economic and other conditions such as employment levels, demographic trends, availability of financing, interest rates and consumer confidence, could negatively affect the demand for and pricing of our building products. For example, if interest rates increase, the ability of prospective buyers to finance purchases of home improvement products and invest in new real estate could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial performance. In response to the significant decline in the market for our building and home improvement products beginning in 2008, we closed facilities and sold certain businesses and assets and we continue to monitor cost control initiatives. In the near-term, it is unclear whether demand for these products will return and stabilize or whether demand for our building products will further decline. The integration of the Merged Business with the businesses we operated prior to the Transactions may not be successful or the anticipated benefits from the Transactions may not be realized. After consummation of the Transactions, we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did prior to the Transactions. The process of integrating the Merged Business with the businesses we operated prior to the Transactions will require us to expend significant capital and significantly expand the scope of our operations and financial systems. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of the Merged Page 17 of 144 Table of Contents Business with our pre-Transactions operations. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include: •integrating the operations of the Merged Business while carrying on the ongoing operations of the businesses we operated prior to the Transactions; •managing a significantly larger company than before consummation of the Transactions; •the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process; •coordinating a greater number of diverse businesses and businesses located in a greater number of geographic locations; •integrating two separate business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible; •attracting and retaining the necessary personnel associated with the Merged Business; •creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and controlling the costs associated with such matters; and •integrating information, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems. There is no assurance that the Merged Business will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into the businesses we operated prior to the Transactions. The process of integrating the Merged Business into our pre-Transactions operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees with the requisite expertise to integrate the businesses or to operate our business after the Transactions. If we do not hire or retain employees with the requisite skills and knowledge to run our business after the Transactions, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are able to successfully combine the two business operations, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits of the increased sales volume and other benefits, including the expected approximately $115.0 million of annualized cost synergies that are expected to result from the Transactions, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies. If we fail to realize the benefits we anticipate from the acquisition, our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. Page 18 of 144 Table of Contents Our operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; the costs associated with compliance with these regulations could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the failure to comply could expose us to material liabilities. Our operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety regulation, including laws and regulations related to air emissions, water discharges, waste disposal and remediation of contaminated sites, at both the national and local levels in the United States. We are also subject to similar laws and regulations in Canada and other jurisdictions in which we operate. The nature of the chemical and building products industries exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury, including, in the case of chemicals, potential releases into the environment. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of use, transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of the storage and disposal of wastes. We have and will continue to incur substantial operating and capital costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in its operations for violations arising under these laws and regulations. For example, some environmental laws, such as the federal Superfund statute, impose joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated, arranged for disposal of or transported waste to a disposal site or selected or presently or formerly owned or operated a disposal site or a site otherwise contaminated by hazardous substances. A number of environmental liabilities have been associated with our Lake Charles North Facility, a portion of which we acquired as part of our acquisition of the vinyl business of CONDEA Vista and which may be designated as a Superfund site. Although CONDEA Vista retained financial responsibility for certain environmental liabilities that relate to the acquired facilities that arose before the closing of the acquisition in November 1999, there can be no assurance that CONDEA Vista will be able to satisfy its obligations in this regard, particularly in light of the long period of time in which environmental liabilities may arise under the environmental laws. If CONDEA Vista fails to fulfill its obligations regarding these environmental liabilities, then we could be held responsible. Furthermore, we are severally responsible for, and do not have indemnification for, any environmental liabilities arising from certain other acquisitions, including several liabilities resulting from Royal Group's operations prior to our acquisition of that company. In connection with the consummation of the Transactions, we acquired a significant additional number of properties and amount of assets, which could materially increase our compliance costs and exposure to liabilities. The properties and assets we acquired as a result of our merger with the Merged Business are subject to environmental health and safety laws and regulations similar to those to which the properties and assets of our chlorovinyls segment were subject prior to the Transactions, which could require or result in significant additional capital expenditures in future periods. For example, the Merged Business could be responsible for, and is engaged in discussing with various parties regarding, an allocation of costs relating to certain environmental remediation plans at the Calcasieu River Estuary in Lake Charles, Louisiana. These costs could be material. Further, the Merged Business recently settled with the LDEQ alleged violations of the Merged Business's Lake Charles South Facility's air permit. The settlement calls for a cash payment of $400,000 and the performance of Beneficial Environmental Projects ("BEPs") expected to cost $220,000. This settlement is a liability of the Merged Business that we combined with in connection with the Transactions. In March 2011, the EPA issued the Boiler MACT regulations, which are aimed at controlling emissions of toxic air contaminants. As a result of numerous petitions from both industry and environmental groups, the EPA was required to reconsider its March 2011 final rule. On December 23, 2011, the Page 19 of 144 Table of Contents EPA's Proposed Rule reconsidering the Boiler MACT regulations was published in the Federal Register. On December 20, 2012, the EPA issued its final regulations under the Boiler MACT and submitted them for publication to the Federal Register. The regulations were published in the Federal Register on January 31, 2013 and would require covered facilities to comply within three years of that date. The coal fired power plant at the Merged Business's Natrium, West Virginia facility would likely be the source most significantly impacted by the Boiler MACT regulations. No assurance as to the ultimate impact of the final Boiler MACT regulations on our operations or overall business can be provided, but the regulations may require significant capital expenditures and result in increased operating costs. As of December 31, 2012, we had reserves for environmental contingencies totaling approximately $11.2 million of which $4.1 million was classified as a current liability. As a result of the Transactions and the significant additional number of properties and assets we own, we are currently in the process of determining reserves for future periods. We expect to have substantially higher reserves for environmental contingencies in the future. In addition, due to the nature of environmental laws, regulations and liabilities, it is possible that the reviews we conducted in connection with our evaluation of, and determination to enter into, the Transactions, may not have identified all potentially adverse conditions. Such conditions may not currently exist or be detectable through reasonable methods, or may not be able to be adequately valued. For example, the Merged Business's Natrium, West Virginia facility has been in operation for over 65 years. There may be significant latent liabilities or future claims arising from the operation of a facility of this age, and we may be required to incur material future remediation or other costs in connection with future actions or developments at this or other facilities. We expect to be continually subjected to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and that continued compliance will require increased capital expenditures and increased operating costs or may impose restrictions on our present or future operations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of these laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. Our policy is to accrue costs relating to environmental matters when it is probable that these costs will be required and can be reasonably estimated. Any increase in these costs, or any material restrictions, could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. However, estimated costs for future environmental compliance and remediation may be materially lower than actual costs, or we may not be able to quantify potential costs in advance. Actual costs related to any environmental compliance in excess of estimated costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition in one or more future periods. Recent heightened interest in environmental-related issues could require us to incur significant compliance costs or result in material operating restrictions. Heightened interest in environmental regulation, such as climate change issues, has the potential to materially impact our costs and present and future operations. We, and other chemicals companies, are currently required to file certain governmental reports relating to GHG emissions. The U.S. Government has considered, and may in the future implement, restrictions or other controls on GHG emissions which could require us to incur significant capital expenditures or further restrict our present or future operations. In addition to GHG regulations, the EPA has recently taken certain actions to limit or control certain pollutants created by companies such as ours. For example, in February 2012, the EPA issued its final rule to update emissions limits for air toxins from PVC production. The rule, known as the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production, establishes new, more stringent emission standards for certain regulated "hazardous air pollutants," Page 20 of 144 Table of Contents including vinyl chloride monomer. The rule sets MACT standards for major sources of PVC production and establishes certain working practices, as well as monitoring, reporting and record-keeping requirements. Existing sources that become subject to these requirements would have three years from the effectiveness of the rule to come into compliance. Following the publication of the rule in the Federal Register, legal challenges were filed by the vinyl industry's trade organization, several vinyl manufacturers and several environmental groups, which will likely impact provisions of a final rule. Based on a preliminary evaluation of the rule as it currently exists, as well as a number of assumptions concerning the equipment and process changes that would be necessary to come into compliance with the existing final rule, we expect that the capital expenditures necessary to achieve compliance with the existing final rule would be less than $15 million. However, there could be significant changes from the currently existing rule to the final rule after all legal challenges have been exhausted, which could require us to spend capital costs significantly higher than what we have previously estimated. The business and operations of our chlorovinyls segment are also subject to pending environmental regulations impacting the Merged Business. For example, in March 2011, the EPA proposed amendments to the Mercury MACT regulations. These proposed amendments would require improvements in work practices to reduce fugitive emissions and would result in reduced levels of mercury emissions while still allowing the mercury cell facilities to continue to operate. The Merged Business currently operates a mercury cell production unit at its Natrium, West Virginia facility. No assurances as to the timing or content of the final rule, or its ultimate impact on us, can be provided. In August 2010 the Circuit Court of Marshall County, West Virginia entered a Consent Order between PPG and the WVDEP. The Consent Order resolved certain alleged violations of the West Virginia NPDES Permit for the Merged Business's Natrium, West Virginia facility, which permit is administered by WVDEP per the CWA and the WPCA, and requires the Merged Business to take certain ongoing actions. In November 2012, PPG received a 60-day notice letter on behalf of the West Virginia Rivers Coalition under Section 505(b) of the CWA indicating an intent to file a citizens suit under the CWA based on certain additional alleged violations of the West Virginia NPDES Permit, the CWA and the WPCA at the Merged Business's Natrium, West Virginia facility. The Merged Business has commenced discussions with the WVDEP regarding this matter. In January 2013, WVDEP and PPG, on behalf of the Merged Business, entered into an Amended Consent Order to address and resolve the additional alleged violations and have submitted the Amended Consent Order to the Court for approval following a public comment period. It is not possible to determine the outcome of this matter at this early stage. Also in March 2011, the EPA issued the Boiler MACT regulations. These regulations are aimed at controlling emissions of toxic air contaminants. As a result of numerous petitions from both industry and environmental groups, the EPA was required to reconsider its March 2011 final rule. On December 23, 2011, the EPA's Proposed Rule reconsidering the Boiler MACT regulations was published in the Federal Register. On December 20, 2012, the EPA issued its final regulations under the Boiler MACT and submitted them for publication to the Federal Register. The regulations were published in the Federal Register on January 31, 2013 and would require covered facilities to comply within three years of that date. The coal fired power plant at the Merged Business's Natrium, West Virginia facility would likely be the source most significantly impacted by the Boiler MACT regulations. No assurances as to the ultimate impact of the Boiler MACT regulations on our operations or our overall business can be provided, but the regulations may require significant capital expenditures and operating costs. The potential impact of these and/or unrelated future, legislative or regulatory actions on our current or future operations cannot be predicted at this time but could be significant. Such impacts could include the potential for significant compliance costs, including capital expenditures, could result in operating restrictions or could require us to incur significant legal or other costs related to compliance Page 21 of 144 Table of Contents or other activities. Any increase in the costs related to these initiatives, or restrictions on our operations, could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. We have assumed certain material pension and post-retirement welfare benefit obligations associated with the Merged Business. Future funding obligations related to these liabilities could restrict cash available for our operations, capital expenditures or other requirements or require us to borrow additional funds. In the Transactions, we assumed certain substantial U.S. tax-qualified and non-tax-qualified pension obligations related to employees and retirees of the Merged Business. In connection therewith, the legally required level of pension assets will be transferred from the tax-qualified PPG pension plans to the new pension plans to be established by us in respect of those liabilities. In addition to the standard minimum funding requirements, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the "Pension Act") (as amended by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008) requires companies with tax-qualified defined benefit pension plans to make contributions to such plans as frequently as quarterly in order to meet the "funding target" for such plans, as defined in the Pension Act. The failure to meet the funding target could result in the imposition of fines or penalties. Funding obligations with respect to tax-qualified pension plans change due to, among other things, the actual investment return on plan assets. Continued volatility in the capital markets may have a further negative impact on the funded status of tax-qualified pension plans, which may in turn increase attendant funding obligations. The accounting for the Transactions, including the allocation of the purchase price to acquired assets and liabilities, is not yet complete given the limited amount of time since the Closing Date. The preliminary estimated fair value of pension investment assets related to the Merged Business and assumed by us upon the consummation of the Transactions was $476 million as of January 28, 2013. As of the same date, our estimated preliminary projected benefit obligation with respect to these assets was $543 million. The unfunded status of the U.S. and Canadian pension obligations assumed by us calculated on a projected benefit obligation basis as of January 28, 2013, was approximately $67 million. The unfunded other post-retirement benefit obligations assumed by us as of January 28, 2013, were approximately $182 million. We estimate that we will fund approximately $20 million to $30 million to the assumed pension and other post-retirement benefit plans for the year ended December 31, 2013. Weighted average discount rates for the January 28, 2013 transfer are estimated to be 4.15 percent and 4.35 percent respectively for pension and other post-retirement benefits and the weighted average initial health care trend rates are assumed to be 6.64 percent declining to 4.50 percent over 11 years. A 25 basis point increase to the January discount rates assumed at close would decrease the estimated benefit obligations for the U.S. and Canadian pension and post-retirement plans transferred from PPG by $23 million, whereas a 25 basis point decrease would increase the estimated benefit obligations by $24 million. If the assumed health care trend rates were 1 percent lower or 1 percent higher the estimated post-retirement benefit obligations for the transferred U.S. and Canadian post-retirement plans would decrease the obligations by $18 million or increase them by $23 million. Given the amount of pension assets transferred from the tax-qualified PPG pension plans to the new pension plans established by us, and subject to the foregoing variables and the uncertainties associated therewith, it is possible that we could be required to make substantial contributions in future years to the new pension plans. These contributions could restrict available cash for our operations, capital expenditures and other requirements and may materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Nonqualified pension liabilities that we assumed are unfunded, and no assets were transferred by PPG to us in respect of these liabilities. These obligations will require annual funding that could restrict cash available to us for other purposes. The principal post-retirement welfare benefit liabilities assumed by us related to retirees associated with the Merged Business are obligations to provide retiree health benefits. No assets were transferred by Page 22 of 144 Table of Contents PPG to us in respect of these liabilities as these obligations are unfunded. The obligations to make payment with respect to these liabilities in the future may increase for several reasons, including, but not limited to, because of health care costs escalation. These obligations will require annual funding that could restrict cash available to us for use for other purposes. While we intend to comply with any future funding obligations for our pension and post-retirement welfare benefit plans through the use of cash from operations, there can be no assurance that we will generate enough cash to do so and also meet our other required or intended cash uses. Our inability to fund these obligations through cash from operations could require us to seek funding from other sources, including through additional borrowings, which could materially increase our outstanding debt or debt service requirements. We may be affected by significant restrictions set forth in the agreements governing the Transactions in order to avoid significant tax-related liabilities. The tax matters agreement we entered into with Eagle Spinco Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PPG that merged with a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours in the Transactions ("Splitco"), and PPG in connection with Transactions generally prohibits us and our affiliates from taking certain actions that could cause the Transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions. In particular, for a two-year period following January 28, 2013, the date the Transactions were consummated, we may not: •enter into any transaction or series of transactions (or any agreement, understanding or arrangement) as a result of which one or more persons would acquire (directly or indirectly) stock comprising 50 percent or more of the vote or value of Splitco; •redeem or repurchase any stock or stock rights above certain limits; •amend our certificate of incorporation or take any other action affecting the relative voting rights of our capital stock; •merge or consolidate with any other person; •take any other action that would, when combined with any other direct or indirect changes in ownership of Splitco capital stock (including pursuant to the Merger), have the effect of causing one or more persons to acquire (directly or indirectly) stock comprising 50 percent or more of the vote or value of Splitco or would reasonably be expected to adversely affect the tax-free status of the Transactions; •liquidate or partially liquidate; •discontinue the active conduct of the Merged Business; or •sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets (including stock of subsidiaries) that constitute more than 30 percent of the consolidated gross assets of Splitco and/or its subsidiaries (subject to exceptions for, among other things, ordinary course dispositions and repayments or prepayments of our new $279.0 million term loan facility, which matures in 2017 (the "Term Facility") or the $688.0 million aggregate principal amount of Splitco's 4.625 percent senior notes due 2021 (the "Splitco Notes")). If we intend to take any such restricted action, we will be required to cooperate with PPG in obtaining a supplemental ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an unqualified tax opinion reasonably acceptable to PPG to the effect that such action will not affect the status of the Transactions as tax-free Page 23 of 144 Table of Contents transactions. However, if we take any of the actions above and such actions result in tax-related losses to PPG, then we generally will be required to indemnify PPG for such losses, without regard to whether PPG has given us prior consent. Due to these restrictions and indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement, we may be limited in our ability to pursue strategic transactions, equity or convertible debt financings or other transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. Also, our potential indemnity obligation to PPG might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control during this two-year period that our stockholders may consider favorable to our ability to pursue strategic transactions, equity or convertible debt financings or other transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials costs, and other external factors beyond our control, as well as changes in the level of activity in the home repair and remodeling and new home construction sectors of the economy, can cause wide fluctuations in our margins. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel, raw materials and other costs may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing costs, and energy costs, in particular electricity and fuel, represent a component of the costs to manufacture building products. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of capacity additions or facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw materials prices, demand for our products, product prices, sales volumes and margins. These factors include general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors' actions, international events and circumstances and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to pass through price increases in energy costs and raw materials, we have been unsuccessful in doing so in some circumstances in the past and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully do so in the future. Additionally, the businesses of each of our reportable segments are impacted by changes in the North American home repair and remodeling sectors, as well as the new construction sector, which may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends, consumer confidence, increases in interest rates and availability of consumer financing for home repair and remodeling projects as well as availability of financing for new home purchases. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our products, while we may not be able to reduce our costs by an equivalent amount, which alone or in combination could cause our net sales and net income to materially decrease and, among other things, could require us to recognize impairments of our assets. Hazards associated with manufacturing may adversely affect our business or results of operations. There are a number of hazards associated with chlorovinyls and aromatics chemical manufacturing and building products manufacturing in our current operations, as well as in the use, storage and transportation of related raw materials, products and wastes. The occurrence of any such hazard could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole. These hazards include: •pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; •explosions and fires; Page 24 of 144 Table of Contents •inclement weather and natural disasters; •mechanical failure; •unscheduled downtime; •labor difficulties; •transportation interruptions; •transportation accidents involving our chemical products; •remediation complications; •terrorist acts; and •chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, any of which could lead to claims or material liability under environmental or other laws. Although we maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business. In addition to potential exposure to claims arising from environmental liabilities, we face potential exposure to significant product liability, personal injury or other claims relating to the production and manufacture of our products. We are exposed to significant losses from product liability claims relating to the products we manufacture in each of our reportable segments. Additionally, individuals could seek damages for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals at our facilities or to chemicals otherwise owned, controlled or manufactured by us. We are also subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers' compensation and other matters. In connection with the consummation of the Transactions, our exposure to potential losses from products liability, personal injury and other claims significantly increased as a result of existing and possible future lawsuits and claims relating to the Merged Business and its products. For example, the Merged Business is currently involved in litigation with, among others, the Suffolk County, New York Water Authority relating to the claims involving the manufacture of perchloroethylene and a significant number of other contract, product liability and other matters. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. Although we maintain and expect to continue to maintain appropriate amounts of insurance for products liability, workplace exposure, workers' compensation and other claims, the amount and scope of such insurance may not be adequate or available to cover a claim that is successfully asserted against us. In addition, such insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The results of any future litigation or claims are inherently unpredictable, but such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. Page 25 of 144 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In connection with the Transactions, we increased our asset-based revolving credit facility from $300 million to $500 million (the "New ABL Revolver"). In addition, we incurred $279.0 million of new indebtedness under the Term Facility, $450.0 million of new indebtedness represented by the $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.875% senior notes due 2023 (the "Senior Notes") and $688.0 million of new indebtedness of Splitco represented by the Splitco Notes. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and working capital; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and, thus, that may have greater flexibility to use their cash flows to pursue business opportunities that may improve their businesses and financial performance; •expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because the interest rates on borrowings under our New ABL Revolver are variable; •increase our cost of borrowing; and •limit the amount of additional debt we could borrow. While we believe we should be able to meet the requirements of the agreements governing our and our subsidiaries' existing debt, our ability to do so depends on many factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, and the impact any one or more of those factors may have on our business at any given time or over any period of time. In addition, if and when we attempt to refinance our debt, it is possible that the debt markets could be less favorable at that time, which could result in higher interest rates on any debt that we refinance, more restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our and our subsidiaries' existing debt for any debt we refinance and other factors that could be less favorable to our business. The New ABL Revolver, the Term Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Splitco Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The agreements that govern the terms of our and our subsidiaries' existing debt, including the New ABL Revolver, the Term Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Splitco Notes, impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; incur liens; make investments and sell assets, including the stock of subsidiaries; pay dividends and make other distributions; purchase our stock; engage in business activities unrelated to our current business; enter into transactions with affiliates; or consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. We are limited in how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities, both as a result of these covenants and restrictions and as a result of the restrictions and limitations imposed on us in connection with undertaking the Transactions and preserving the tax-free nature thereof. See "We Page 26 of 144 Table of Contents may be affected by significant restrictions set forth in the agreements governing the Transactions in order to avoid significant tax-related liabilities." The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable immediately and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Furthermore, there are limitations on our ability to borrow the full amount of commitments under the New ABL Revolver. Borrowings under the New ABL Revolver are limited by a specified borrowing base consisting of a percentage of eligible accounts receivable and inventory, less customary reserves. In addition, (i) if our availability under the New ABL Revolver falls below a certain amount, we will be subject to compliance with a covenant requiring us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0; and (ii) we are subject to a senior secured leverage ratio of 3.50 to 1.00 under the Term Facility. Our ability to comply with any required fixed charge coverage ratio and senior secured leverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you we will be able to comply with these ratios. A breach of the covenants requiring compliance with these ratios, or with any other covenants in these debt agreements, could result in a default under the New ABL Revolver or the Term Facility, as the case may be. We rely on a limited number of outside suppliers for specified feedstocks and services. We obtain a significant portion of our raw materials from a few key suppliers. If any of these suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present or any future supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials. Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of the vinyls business of CONDEA Vista in 1999, we entered into agreements with CONDEA Vista to provide specified feedstocks for our Lake Charles North Facility. These facilities are dependent upon CONDEA Vista's infrastructure for services such as wastewater and ground water treatment, site remediation and fire water supply. Any failure of CONDEA Vista to perform its obligations under those agreements could adversely affect the operation of the affected facilities and our liquidity and results of operations. The agreements relating to these feedstocks and services had initial terms of one to 10 years. Most of these agreements have been automatically renewed, but may be terminated by CONDEA Vista after specified notice periods. If we are required to obtain an alternate source for these feedstocks or services, we may not be able to obtain pricing on as favorable terms. Additionally, we may be forced to pay additional transportation costs or to invest in capital projects for pipelines or alternate facilities to accommodate railcar or other delivery methods or to replace other services. While we believe that our relationships with our key suppliers are good, any vendor may choose, subject to existing contracts, to modify its relationship due to general economic concerns or concerns relating to the vendor or us, at any time. Any significant change in the terms that we have with our key suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity, as could significant additional requirements from our suppliers that we provide them additional security in the form of prepayments or with letters of credit. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, which may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The chemicals industry is highly competitive. Many of the competitors of our chlorovinyls and aromatics chemicals businesses are larger and have greater financial and other resources and less debt Page 27 of 144 Table of Contents than us. Moreover, barriers to entry are low in most product lines of our chlorovinyls and aromatics chemicals businesses. Capacity additions or technological advances by existing or future competitors could also create greater competition, particularly in pricing. We cannot provide assurance that we will have access to the financing necessary to upgrade our facilities in response to technological advances or other competitive developments. In addition, we compete with national and international manufacturers of vinyl-based building and home improvement products. Some of these companies are larger and have greater financial resources and less debt than we have. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the industries in which we operate and may have significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we have. Some of these competitors, who compete with our building product lines, may also be able to compete more aggressively in pricing and could take a greater share of sales and cause us to lose business from our customers. Many of the competitors of our building products business have operated in the industry longer than we have. Additionally, our building products face competition from alternative materials: wood, metal, fiber cement and masonry in siding, wood and aluminum in windows and iron and cement in pipe and fittings. An increase in competition from other vinyl exterior building products manufacturers or alternative building materials could cause us to lose customers and lead to decreases in net sales and profitability. To the extent we lose customers in the renovation and remodeling markets, we would likely have to market to the new home construction market, which historically has experienced more fluctuations in demand. We currently rely on a transition services agreement with PPG and may be unable to provide the same types and level of benefits, services and resources to the Merged Business that historically have been provided by PPG or to provide them at the same cost. As a separate reporting segment of PPG, the Merged Business was able to receive benefits and services from PPG and was able to benefit from PPG's financial strength and extensive business relationships. After the Transactions, we own the Merged Business, which no longer benefits from PPG's services and resources. We currently rely on a transition services agreement with PPG pursuant to which PPG has agreed to provide certain transition services for up to 24 months following the consummation of the Transactions. However, it cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our administrative support systems to adequately replace those resources or to replace them at the same cost. If we are not able to replace the resources provided by PPG or are unable to replace them at the same cost or are delayed in replacing the resources provided by PPG, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. We rely heavily on third party transportation, which subjects us to risks that we cannot control, and which risks may materially adversely affect our operations. We rely heavily on railroads, barges and other shipping companies to transport raw materials to the manufacturing facilities used by each of our businesses and to ship finished products to customers. These transport operations are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages and operating hazards, as well as interstate transportation regulations. If we are delayed or unable to ship finished product or unable to obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if there were significant changes in the cost of these services, we may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship goods, which could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues and costs of operations. Page 28 of 144 Table of Contents Operation on multiple Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP") information systems, and the conversion from multiple ERP systems to a fewer number of ERP systems, may negatively impact our operations. We are highly dependent on our information systems infrastructure in order to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, maintain regulatory compliance and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. We operate on multiple ERP information systems, which complicate our processing, reporting and analysis of business transactions and other information. Since we must process and reconcile our information from multiple systems, the chance of errors is increased, and we may incur significant additional costs related thereto. Inconsistencies in the information from multiple ERP systems could adversely impact our ability to manage our business efficiently and may result in heightened risk to our ability to maintain our books and records and comply with regulatory requirements. In addition, the Merged Business currently operates on separate ERP systems, which must be integrated with our existing systems, and there can be no assurance that the integration of these systems will be successful. Further, from time to time we may transition a portion of our operations from one of our ERP systems to another. The transition to a different ERP system involves numerous risks, including: •diversion of management's attention away from normal daily business operations; •loss of or delays in accessing data; •increased demand on our operations support personnel; •initial dependence on unfamiliar systems while training personnel to use new systems; and •increased operating expenses resulting from training, conversion and transition support activities. Any of the foregoing could result in a material increase in information technology compliance or other related costs and could materially negatively impact our operations. A significant portion of our hourly workers are represented by labor unions and therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements; if we are unable to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements before they expire, our workers subject to collective bargaining agreements could engage in strikes or other labor actions that could materially disrupt our ability to conduct our operations. As of January 31, 2013, we had approximately 6,000 active employees. Approximately 1,600, or 27 percent, of these employees are represented by labor unions and are therefore subject to collective bargaining agreements that will expire by the end of 2017. If we are unable to reach new collective bargaining agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work slowdowns or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to conduct our operations. New collective bargaining agreements or the renewal of existing agreements may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition in the future. If our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or other intangible assets become impaired in the future, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings, which could be significant. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis (or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable) and other intangible assets are reviewed if events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If our goodwill, Page 29 of 144 Table of Contents indefinite-lived intangible assets, or other intangible assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined, which could be significant. We may evaluate asset dispositions, asset acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that may impact our results of operations, and we may not achieve the expected results from these transactions. From time to time, and subject to any applicable restrictions arising from the Transactions or otherwise, we may enter into agreements to dispose of certain assets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to dispose of any such assets at any anticipated prices, or at all, or that any such sale will occur during any anticipated time frame. In addition, subject to any applicable restrictions arising from the Transactions or otherwise, we may engage in business combinations, purchases of assets or contractual arrangements or joint ventures. Subject to any applicable restrictions arising from the Transactions or otherwise, some of these transactions may be financed with our additional borrowings. The integration of any business we may acquire may be disruptive to us and may result in a significant diversion of management attention and operational resources. Additionally, we may suffer a loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, loss of revenues, increases in costs or other difficulties. If the expected efficiencies and synergies from any transactions are not fully realized, our results of operations could be adversely affected, because of the costs associated with such transactions or otherwise. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. The failure to realize the expected long-term benefits of any one or more of these transactions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our participation in joint ventures exposes us to a number of risks, including risks of shared control. From time to time we enter into joint ventures, such as our building products strategic joint venture arrangements with several customers, our ownership of a 60 percent interest in the TCI joint venture and our joint venture in RS Cogen. We expect that we will evaluate opportunities to enter into additional joint ventures in the future, subject to any applicable restrictions arising in connection with the Transactions. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If there are differences in views among joint venture participants in how to operate the joint venture that result in delayed decisions or the failure to make decisions, or our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate according to its business plan and fulfill its obligations. In that case, we may be required to write down the value of our investment in a joint venture, increase the level of financial or other commitments to the joint venture or, if we have contractual agreements with the joint venture, our operations may be materially adversely affected. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could affect our consolidated financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in various currencies might occur in one or many of such currencies over time. From time to time, we may use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate Page 30 of 144 Table of Contents fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, would not materially adversely affect our financial results. In addition, we are exposed to volatility in interest rates. When appropriate, we may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. We cannot assure you, however, that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot negotiate terms that are as favorable as those PPG has received when we replace contracts after the closing of the Transactions. Prior to consummation of the Transactions, certain functions (such as purchasing, information systems, sales, logistics and distribution) for the Merged Business were performed under PPG's centralized systems and, in some cases, under contracts that were also used for PPG's other businesses that we did not acquire. Under the transition services agreement we entered into with PPG in connection with the Transactions, PPG has agreed to provide the Merged Business with certain services for a period of up to 24 months from the consummation of the Transactions; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable as those PPG received with respect to the Merged Business prior to the Transactions when and if we enter into our own agreements for the provision of services to the Merged Business. Although we believe that we will be able to enter into new agreements for similar services, it is possible that the failure to replace a significant number of these agreements for any of these services could have a material adverse impact on us. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain statements relating to future events and our intentions, beliefs, expectations and predictions for the future. Any such statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Words or phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "project," "may," "will," "intend," "target," "expect," "would" or "could" (including the negative variations thereof) or similar terminology used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions or events generally identify forward-looking statements. These statements relate to, among other things, our outlook for future periods, supply and demand, pricing trends and market forces within the chemical and building industries, cost reduction strategies and their results, planned capital expenditures, long-term objectives of management, expected benefits of the Transactions, integration plans and expected synergies therefrom and other statements of expectations concerning matters that are not historical facts. These statements are based on the current expectations of our management. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: •the integration of the Merged Business with the businesses we operated prior to the Transactions not being successful; •changes, seasonality and/or cyclicality in the industries in which our products are sold and changes in demand for our products or increases in overall industry capacity that could affect production volumes and/or pricing; •risks, costs, liabilities, unexpected delays and operating restrictions associated with integrating the Merged Business; Page 31 of 144 Table of Contents •the costs and operating restrictions associated with compliance with current and future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations; •the significant restrictions on our business operations set forth in the agreements governing the Transactions; •the availability and pricing of energy and raw materials; •changes in the general economy, including the impacts of the current, and any potential future, economic uncertainties in the housing and construction markets; •risks, hazards and potential liabilities associated with manufacturing chemicals and building products; •our ability to continue to comply with the covenants in the New ABL Revolver, the Term Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Splitco Notes; •competition within our industry; •difficulties in product transportation; •complications resulting from our multiple ERP systems and the implementation of our new ERP systems; •strikes and work stoppages; •any impairment of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or other intangible assets; •the failure to realize the benefits of, and/or disruptions resulting from, any asset dispositions, asset acquisitions, joint ventures, business combinations or other transactions, including the Transactions; •risks associated with any potential failures of our joint venture partners to fulfill their obligations; •changes in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and •our substantial amount of indebtedness and significant debt service obligations. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, the forward-looking statements discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have a material adverse effect on our actual future results, performance or achievements. For a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to us and our business, see the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled "Risk Factors" and in our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC. As a result of the foregoing, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake, and expressly disclaim, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Page 32 of 144 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Executive Officers of Axiall Corporation The following is additional information regarding our executive officers as of February 28, 2013: Dean Adelman, 47, has served as the Senior Vice President of Human Resources since February 2013. Before then, he was the Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Chief Administration Officer of BlueLinx Corporation from 2005 to 2013. Joseph C. Breunig, 51, has served as Executive Vice President, Chemicals, since August 2010. Before then he was employed by BASF Corporation where, since 2005, he held the position of Executive Vice President and President of Market and Business Development for North America. Paul D. Carrico, 62, has been a director and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since February 2008. Before then, he had served as Vice President, Chemicals and Vinyls since October 2006, Vice President, Polymer Group from May 2005 until October 2006 and Business Manager, Resin Division from 1999, when he joined our Company, until May 2005. Timothy Mann, Jr., 47, has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2012. For more than five years prior to joining us, he was a partner at the international law firm of Jones Day, where his practice focused primarily on public and private merger and acquisition activities and corporate governance, including executive compensation and general corporate counseling. Mark J. Orcutt, 57, has served as Executive Vice President, Building Products since December 2008. Before then, he was employed by PPG Industries, Inc., most recently as Vice President Performance Glazing since 2003. Gregory C. Thompson, 57, has served as Chief Financial Officer since February 2008. Before then, he was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Invacare Corporation, a medical equipment manufacturer, since 2002. Executive officers are elected by, and serve at the pleasure of, the board of directors. 