Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes could decline. You should consider the following risks before deciding to invest in, or maintain your investment in, our common stock or senior notes. 9 Table of Contents Our significant debt obligations could limit our flexibility in managing our business and expose us to certain risks. We are highly leveraged. Our high degree of leverage may have negative consequences to us, including the following: • we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations under our senior notes or other indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • we may be subject to credit reductions and other changes in our business relationships with our suppliers, vendors and customers if they perceive that we would be unable to pay our debts to them in a timely manner; • we may be more vulnerable to the impact of economic downturns, including the current recessionary global economy, and adverse developments in our business; • we have certain short term and uncommitted lines of credit that could be difficult to replace if not renewed, or that could otherwise be canceled on very short notice to us; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments on, or to refinance, our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations sufficient to service our debt, fund our operations or make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will also depend on the credit and capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity and the operation of our business. Continuing unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The apparel and footwear industries have historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations. Our financial performance has been, and may continue to be, negatively affected by unfavorable economic conditions. Continued or further recessionary economic conditions may have a further adverse impact on our sales volumes, pricing levels and profitability. As domestic and international economic conditions change, trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and subject to reductions due to uncertainties about the future. When consumers reduce discretionary spending, purchases of specialty apparel and footwear tend to decline. A continuation of the general reduction in consumer discretionary spending due to the recession in the domestic and international economies, or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the current tight credit market continues to have a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this tight credit market on our suppliers and other vendors cannot be predicted. The inability of suppliers and other vendors to access needed liquidity, or the insolvency of any of our suppliers and other vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise or other services that we require. Continued worsening economic conditions could also impair our ability to collect amounts as they become due from our customers, licensees, or other third parties that do business with us. We also face the increased risk of order reductions or cancellations when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. 10 Table of Contents The apparel and footwear industries are each highly competitive, and if we fail to compete effectively, we could lose our market position. The apparel and footwear industries are each highly competitive. We compete against a number of domestic and international designers, manufacturers, retailers and distributors of apparel and footwear, some of whom are significantly larger and have significantly greater financial resources than we do. In order to compete effectively, we must (1) maintain the image of our brands and our reputation for authenticity in our core boardriding markets; (2) be flexible and innovative in responding to rapidly changing market demands on the basis of brand image, style, performance and quality; and (3) offer consumers a wide variety of high quality products at competitive prices. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. Several of our competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater brand recognition and greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales, marketing and strategic acquisitions. The number of our direct competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other product lines or as other companies expand into our product lines. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, standards or consumer preferences. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by our competitors and the competitive pressures in the apparel and footwear industries. If we are unable to develop innovative and stylish products in response to rapid changes in consumer demands and fashion trends, we may suffer a decline in our revenues and market share. The apparel and footwear industries are subject to constantly and rapidly changing consumer demands based on fashion trends and performance features. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and image of our brands and the quality of our products. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop stylish and innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. Changes in foreign currency exchange or interest rates could affect our revenues and costs. We are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relating to certain sales, royalty income, and product purchases of our international subsidiaries that are 11 Table of Contents denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We are also exposed to foreign currency gains and losses resulting from domestic transactions that are not denominated in U.S. dollars, and to gains and losses from fluctuations in interest rates related to our variable rate debt. If we are unsuccessful in using various foreign currency exchange contracts or interest rate swaps to hedge these potential losses, our operating results and cash flows could be significantly reduced. In some cases, as part of our risk management strategies, we may choose not to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes, or we may choose to maintain variable interest rate debt. If we misjudge these risks, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Furthermore, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the statements of operations and balance sheets of our international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. We may (but generally do not) use foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the profit and loss effects of this translation effect; however, accounting rules do not allow us to classify these contracts as hedges, but require us to mark these contracts to fair value at the end of each financial reporting period. In any event, we translate our revenues and expenses at average exchange rates during the period. As a result, the reported revenues and expenses of our international subsidiaries would decrease if the U.S. dollar increased in value in relation to other currencies, including the euro, Australian dollar or Japanese yen. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under certain of our credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase or interest rate spreads widen, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. War, acts of terrorism, or the threat of either could have an adverse effect on our ability to procure our products and on the United States and/or international economies. In the event of war or acts of terrorism or the escalation of existing hostilities, or if any are threatened, our ability to procure our products from our manufacturers for sale to our customers may be negatively affected. We import a substantial portion of our products from other countries. If it becomes difficult or impossible to import our products into the countries in which we sell our products, our sales and profit margins may be adversely affected. Additionally, war, military responses to future international conflicts and possible future terrorist attacks may lead to a downturn in the U.S. and/or international economies which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success is dependent on our ability to protect our worldwide intellectual property rights, and our inability to enforce these rights could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, patents, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We rely on the intellectual property, patent, trademark and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. From time to time, we resort to litigation to protect these rights, and these proceedings can be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. We have obtained some U.S. and foreign trademarks, patents and service mark registrations, and have applied for additional ones, but cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these or other registrations. A failure to obtain trademark, patent or service mark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit our ability to protect our trademarks, patents and service marks and impede our marketing and sales efforts in those jurisdictions. The loss of trademarks, patents and service marks, or the loss of the exclusive use of our trademarks, patents and service marks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 12 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and service marks on a worldwide basis and continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, patents and service marks, as appropriate. We cannot assure you that our actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks, patents and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violative of their trademark or other proprietary rights. We may be subject to claims that our products have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign, discontinue or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. If we are unable to maintain and expand our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent athletes, which contribute to the authenticity and image of our brands. We believe that this strategy has been an effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products. Larger companies with greater access to capital for athlete sponsorships may in the future increase the cost of sponsorships for these athletes to levels we may choose not to match. If this were to occur, our sponsored athletes may terminate their relationships with us and endorse the products of our competitors and we may be unable to obtain endorsements from other comparable athletes. We also are subject to risks related to the selection of athletes whom we choose to endorse our products. We may select athletes who are unable to perform at expected levels or who are not sufficiently marketable. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our athletes could harm our brand and adversely impact our business. If we are unable in the future to secure prominent athletes and arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion, which may not prove to be effective. In any event, our inability to obtain endorsements from professional athletes could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products, resulting in loss of revenues and a loss of profitability. The demand for our products is seasonal and sales are dependent upon the weather. Our revenues and operating results are subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. These trends are dependent on many factors, including the holiday seasons, weather, consumer demand, markets in which we operate and numerous other factors beyond our control. The seasonality of our business, unseasonable weather during our peak selling periods and/or misjudgment in consumer demands could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the issuance of other equity securities, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the value of our senior notes. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our senior notes, our common stock, or both. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities, including the exercise and sale of the warrants and common stock subject to such warrants issued to funds affiliated with Rhône Capital LLC in July 2009 in connection with our new term loan, would have on the market price of our common stock or the value of our senior notes. 13 Table of Contents Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate a majority of our revenues from outside of the United States, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, including: • recessions in foreign economies; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; • longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing foreign operations; • social, political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • our ability to finance foreign operations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; and • U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may harm our financial condition. We have established, and may continue to establish, joint ventures in various foreign territories with independent third party business partners to distribute and sell Quiksilver, Roxy, DC and other branded products in such territories. These joint ventures are subject to substantial risks and liabilities associated with their operations, as well as the risk that our relationships with our joint venture partners do not succeed in the manner that we anticipate. If our joint venture operations, or our relationships with our joint venture partners, are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If the popularity of the sports associated with our brands were to decrease, our revenues could be adversely affected and our results of operations could be impaired. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of products directly associated with boardriding. The demand for such products is directly related to the popularity of boardriding activities and the number of respective participants worldwide. If the demand for boardriding apparel, footwear and accessories decreases, our revenues could be adversely affected and our results of operations could be impaired. In addition, if participation in boardriding activities were to decrease, sales of many of our products could decrease. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We manufacture many of our products offshore because manufacturing costs are generally less, primarily due to lower labor costs. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we may be forced to adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if: • we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs; or • our production costs increase and we cannot increase our prices. Changing international trade regulations and the elimination of quotas on imports of textiles and apparel may increase competition in the apparel industry. 14 Table of Contents Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently import raw materials and/or finished garments into the majority of countries in which we sell our apparel products. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to: • quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the countries where our apparel-producing facilities are located and foreign countries; and • customs duties imposed by the governments where our apparel-producing facilities are located on imported products, including raw materials. In addition, the countries in which our apparel products are manufactured or to which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new quotas, duties, tariffs, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports, or otherwise adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these costs and restrictions could harm our business. We cannot assure you that future trade agreements will not provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third-party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. Substantially all of our apparel products are produced by independent manufacturers. We face the risk that these third-party manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications and regulatory and customer requirements, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs or other business interruptions or failures due to deteriorating economies. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages for certain products and harm our business. The capacity of our manufacturers to manufacture our products also is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in delays in deliveries of our products by our manufacturers or in increased costs to us. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to manufacture or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient, timely manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellations of orders, refusals to accept deliveries or reductions in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. Employment related matters may affect our profitability. As of October 31, 2009, we had no unionized employees, but certain French employees are represented by workers’ councils. As we have little control over union activities, we could face difficulties in the future should our workforce become unionized. There can be no assurance that we will not experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future with our non-unionized employees or employees represented by workers’ councils. Our failure to comply with, or the imposition of liability under, environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs. Some of our facilities and operations are, or have been, subject to various environmental laws and regulations which govern, among other things, the use and storage of hazardous materials, the storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and land, and the cleanup of contamination. Violations of these requirements could result in significant fines or penalties being imposed on us. Discovery of contamination for which we are responsible, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or changes in how existing requirements are enforced, could require us to incur additional costs for compliance or subject us to unexpected liabilities. Any such costs or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 