Item 1A. Risk Factors 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2. Properties 35 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 35 Item 4. Reserved 36 PART II 36 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 36 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 91 Item 9B. Other Information 92 PART III 93 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 93 Item 11. Executive Compensation 97 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence 109 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 112 PART IV 113 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 113 Signatures 114 Exhibits Index 115 EX-10.67 EX-10.68 EX-23.1 EX-23.2 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 1 Table of Contents PART I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements made under the captions “Business” (Item 1) and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (Item 7), the notes to our audited financial statements (Item 8) and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as statements made from time to time by our representatives may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding planned or expected studies and trials of oral formulations that utilize our Eligen® Technology; the timing of the development and commercialization of our product candidates or potential products that may be developed using our Eligen® Technology; the potential market size, advantages or therapeutic uses of our potential products; variation in actual savings and operating improvements resulting from restructurings; and the sufficiency of our available capital resources to meet our funding needs. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results or achievements to be materially different from any future results or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include the factors described under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and the other factors discussed in connection with any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview of Emisphere Introduction and History Emisphere Technologies, Inc. (“Emisphere,” “the Company,” “our,” “us,” or “we”) is a biopharmaceutical company that focuses on a unique and improved delivery of therapeutic molecules or nutritional supplements using its Eligen® Technology. These molecules could be currently available or under development. Such molecules are usually delivered by injection and in many cases, their benefits are limited due to poor bioavailability, slow on-set of action or variable absorption. In those cases, our technology may increase the benefit of the therapy by improving bioavailability or absorption or by increasing the rate of absorption and accelerating the onset of action. The Eligen® Technology can be applied to the oral route of administration as well other delivery pathways, such as buccal, rectal, inhalation, intra-vaginal or transdermal. Our core business strategy is to develop oral forms of drugs or nutrients that are not currently available or have poor bioavailability in oral form, either alone or with corporate partners, by applying the Eligen® Technology to those drugs or nutrients. Typically, the drugs that we target have received regulatory approval, have demonstrated safety and efficacy, and are currently available on the market. Our website is www.emisphere.com. The contents of that website are not incorporated herein by reference thereto. Investor related questions should be directed to info@emisphere.com. Emisphere was originally founded as Clinical Technologies Associates, Inc. in 1986. We conducted an initial public offering in 1989 and were listed on NASDAQ under the ticker symbol “CTAI”. In 1990 we decided to focus on our oral drug delivery technology, now known as the Eligen® Technology. In 1991, we changed our name to Emisphere Technologies, Inc., and we continued to be listed on NASDAQ under the new ticker symbol “EMIS”. The Company’s securities were suspended from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market effective at the open of business on Tuesday, June 9, 2009, and NASDAQ delisted the Company’s securities thereafter. The delisting resulted from the Company’s non-compliance with the minimum market value of listed securities requirement for continued listing. Simultaneously, the Company’s securities began trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), an electronic quotation service maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, effective with the open of business on Tuesday, June 9, 2009. The Company’s trading symbol remains EMIS, however, it is our understanding that, for certain stock quote publication websites, investors may be required to key EMIS.OB to obtain quotes. 2 Table of Contents Since our inception in 1986, substantial efforts and resources have been devoted to understanding the Eligen® Technology and establishing a product development pipeline that incorporates this technology with selected molecules. Since 2007, Emisphere has undergone many positive changes. A new senior management team, led by Michael V. Novinski, was hired; the Eligen® Technology was reevaluated and our corporate strategy was refocused on commercializing the Eligen® Technology as quickly as possible, building high-value partnerships and reprioritizing the product pipeline. Spending was redirected and aggressive cost control initiatives were implemented. These changes resulted in redeployment of resources to programs, one of which, yielded the introduction of our first commercial product during 2009. We continue to develop potential product candidates in-house and the value of our Eligen® Technology was demonstrated and enhanced through the progress made by our development partners Novo Nordisk A/S (“Novo Nordisk”) and Novartis Pharma AG (“Novartis”) on their respective product development programs. Further development, exploration and commercialization of the technology entail risk and operational expenses. However, we have made significant progress on refocusing our efforts on strategic development initiatives and cost control and continue to aggressively seek to reduce non-strategic spending. The Eligen® Technology The Eligen® Technology is a broadly applicable proprietary oral drug delivery technology based on the use of proprietary synthetic chemical compounds known as EMISPHERE® delivery agents, or carriers. These delivery agents facilitate and enable the transport of therapeutic macromolecules (such as proteins, peptides, and polysaccharides) and poorly absorbed small molecules across biological membranes in the gastrointestinal tract, including the stomach, which is where most of the eligen mediated absorption is thought to occur. We believe no other carrier system or drug delivery company can do this. The result is rapid absorption. The stomach as an absorptive organ also contradicts normal absorption mechanisms and makes the proposition easy to understand, but at the same time difficult to believe. Another characteristic that distinguishes Eligen® from the competition is that this permeability in the stomach takes place through a transcellular, not paracellular pathway. This underscores the safety of Eligen® as the passage of the Eligen® carrier and the molecule preserve the integrity of the tight junctions within the cell and reduces any likelihood of inflammatory processes and autoimmune gastrointestinal diseases. Furthermore, because Eligen® Technology carriers are rapidly absorbed, metabolized and eliminated from the body, they do not accumulate in the organs and tissues and are considered safe at anticipated dose and dosing regimens. The Eligen® Technology was extensively reevaluated in 2007 by our scientists, senior management and expert consultants. Based on this analysis, we believe that our technology can enhance overall healthcare, including patient accessibility and compliance, while benefiting the commercial pharmaceutical marketplace and driving company valuation. The application of the Eligen® Technology is potentially broad and may provide for a number of opportunities across a spectrum of therapeutic modalities. Implementing the Eligen® Technology is quite simple. It only requires co-mixing a drug or nutritional supplement and an Eligen® carrier to produce an active formulation. The carrier does not alter the chemical properties of the drug nor its biological activity. Some therapeutic molecules are better suited for use with the Eligen® Technology than others. Drugs or nutritional supplements whose bioavailability is limited by poor membrane permeability or chemical or biological degradation, and which have a moderate-to-wide therapeutic index, appear to be the best candidates. Drugs or nutritional supplements with a narrow therapeutic window or high molecular weight may not be favorable with the technology. We believe that our Eligen® Technology makes it possible to safely deliver a therapeutic macromolecule orally or increase the absorption of a poorly absorbed small molecule without altering its chemical composition or compromising the integrity of biological membranes. We believe that the key benefit of our Eligen® Technology is that it improves the ability of the body to absorb small and large molecule drugs. Emisphere Today During 2009, the Company continued to focus on efforts to apply the Eligen® Technology and realize its value by developing profitable commercial applications. In November 2009 the Company launched its first 3 Table of Contents commercially available product, oral Eligen® B12 (100 mcg), which had been specifically developed to help improve Vitamin B12 absorption and bioavailability with a patented formulation, in partnership with Life Extension®. Life Extension® has certain exclusivity in the USA for distribution via the internet and at specialty health food and nutritional retail outlets including The Vitamin Shoppe, GNC and Vitamin World. Oral Eligen® B12 (100mcg) tablets have been available for sale since November 2009. We continue to develop our product pipeline utilizing the Eligen® Technology with prescription and nonprescription product candidates. We prioritized our development efforts based on overall potential returns on investment, likelihood of success, and market and medical need. Additionally, we continue to improve operational effectiveness and efficiency. Our goal is to implement our Eligen® Technology to enhance overall healthcare, including patient accessibility and compliance, while benefiting the commercial pharmaceutical marketplace. To accelerate commercialization of the technology, Emisphere embarked on a two-pronged strategy. First, we concentrated on unique prescription molecules and nutritional supplements obtained through partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies for molecules where oral absorption is difficult yet substantially beneficial if proven. With prescription molecules, we are working to generate new interest in the Eligen® Technology with new potential partners and attempt to expand our current collaborative relationships to take advantage of the critical knowledge that others have gained by working with our technology. Second, we continue to pursue commercialization of product candidates developed internally. We believe that these internal candidates need to be developed with reasonable investment in an acceptable time period and with a reasonable risk-benefit profile. To support our internal development programs, the Company implemented its new commercialization strategy for the Eligen® Technology. Using extensive safety data available for its SNAC carrier, the Company obtained GRAS (“Generally Recognized as Safe”) status for its SNAC carrier, and then applied the Eligen® Technology with B12, another GRAS substance where bioavailability and absorption is difficult and improving such absorption would yield substantial benefit and value. Using this strategy, the Company launched its first commercially available product, oral Eligen® B12 (100 mcg). Given sufficient time and resources, the Company intends to apply this strategy to develop other commercial products. Examples of other GRAS substances that may be developed into additional commercial products using this strategy would include vitamins such as Vitamin D; minerals such as iron; and other supplements such as the polyphenols and catechins, among others. Our planned second product, a higher dose formulation of Eligen® B12, for use by patients who are Vitamin B12 deficient, is under development and we anticipate launching the product during the second half 2010. Funding required to continue developing our product pipeline may be partially paid by income-generating license arrangements whose value tends to increase as product candidates move from pre-clinical into clinical development. It is our intention that investments that may be required to fund our research and development will be approached incrementally in order to minimize disruption or dilution. The Company also continues to focus on improving operational efficiency. By terminating the lease of our research and development facility in Tarrytown, NY in April 2009, and by utilizing independent contractors to conduct research and development, we reduced our annual operating costs by approximately 55% from 2008 levels. Annual cash expenditures were reduced by approximately $11 million, and the resulting cash burn rate to support continuing operations is approximately $8 million per year. Additionally, we expect to accelerate the commercialization of the Eligen® Technology in a cost effective way and to gain operational efficiencies by tapping into advanced scientific processes offered by independent contractors. Overall Product Pipeline Emisphere has a deep and varied pipeline that includes prescription and nutritional supplement product candidates in varying stages of development. We have one nutritional supplement product using Eligen® Technology on the US market. We have two prescription products in Phase III studies, several in Phase I and a number of pre-clinical (research stage) projects. Some of the pre-clinical projects are partnered; others are Emisphere-initiated. 4 Table of Contents Vitamin B12 B12 is an important nutrient that is poorly absorbed in the oral form. In most healthy people, Vitamin B12 is absorbed in a receptor-mediated pathway in the presence of an intrinsic factor. A large number of people take B12 supplements by the oral route, many in megadoses, and by injection. Currently, it is estimated that at least five million people in the U.S. are taking 40 million injections of Vitamin B12 per year to treat a variety of debilitating medical condition. Another estimated five million are consuming more than 600 million tablets of Vitamin B12 orally. The international market is larger than the U.S. market. Many B12 deficient patients suffer from pernicious anemia and neurological disorders and many of them are infirm or elderly. Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause severe and irreversible damage, especially to the brain and nervous system. At levels only slightly lower than normal, a variety of symptoms such as fatigue, depression, and poor memory may be experienced. During November 2009, the Company launched its first commercially available product, oral Eligen® B12 (100 mcg), which was specifically developed to help improve Vitamin B12 absorption and bioavailability with a patented formulation, in partnership with Life Extension®. Life Extension® has certain exclusivity in the USA for distribution via the internet and at specialty health food and nutritional retail outlets including The Vitamin Shoppe, GNC and Vitamin World. Oral Eligen® B12 (100mcg) tablets have been available for sale since November 2009. Also in November 2009, the Company announced that interim data from an ongoing study demonstrated its oral Eligen® B12 (1000mcg) restored B12 to normal levels in individuals with Vitamin B12 deficiency. Normal levels of serum B12 and active B12 were achieved by 100 percent of those study participants who had taken Eligen® B12 (1000mcg) 15 days into the 90-day study when the first blood samples were taken. As part of an interim analysis in this randomized, multi-center study, levels of serum B12, active B12, homocysteine and methyl malonic acid were measured on day 15, at which point a total of 18 participants (8 on IM injection and 10 on oral) had received either five 1000mcg intramuscular injections of Vitamin B12 or once daily tablets of oral Eligen® B12 (1000mcg). Study subjects taking Eligen® B12 also had a marked decrease in homocysteine, which is a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease. This clinical study with Eligen® B12 (1000mcg) is expected to be completed within the first half of 2010. It is estimated that as many as 10 million people in the U.S. and over 100 million people worldwide may be B12 deficient. Emisphere’s Eligen® B12 product (1000mcg) is planned to be available in 2010. Oral Eligen® B12 and the foregoing statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Oral Eligen® B12 is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. Emisphere developed Eligen® B12 independently, as a nutritional supplement product candidate. Following our proof of concept animal studies of the absorption of Vitamin B12 using our Eligen® Technology, additional preclinical studies using dogs further demonstrated that the Eligen® Technology enhances the absorption of oral B12 and confirmed earlier proof of concept studies conducted in rats. We completed our first clinical study testing our new Vitamin B12 formulation in 20 normal healthy males. The data from our first pharmacokinetic study showed mean Vitamin B12 peak blood levels were more than 10 times higher for the Eligen® B12 5mg formulation than for the 5mg commercial formulation. The mean time to reach peak concentration (Tmax) was reduced by over 90%; to 0.5 hours for the Eligen® B12 5mg from 6.8 hours for the commercial 5mg product. Improvement in bioavailability was approximately 240%, with absorption time at 30 minutes and a mean bioavailability of 5%. The study was conducted with a single administration of Eligen® B12; there were no adverse reactions, and Eligen® B12 was well-tolerated. The data from our first Eligen® B12 clinical study demonstrated a new, more bioavailable oral form of Vitamin B12 and a potential new avenue for addressing the problems with B12 supplementation. Eligen® B12 avoids the normal specialized absorption process that limits absorption of Vitamin B12 from current formulations. In May 2009, the Company was informed by an independent expert panel of scientists that its SNAC carrier has been provisionally designated as Generally Recognized as Safe (“GRAS”) for its intended application in combination with nutrients added to food and dietary supplements. Following a comprehensive 5 Table of Contents evaluation of research and toxicology data, Emisphere’s SNAC was found to be safe at a dosage up to 250 mg per day when used in combination with nutrients to improve their dietary availability. In July 2009, concurrent with the publication of two papers in the July/August issue of the peer reviewed journal, International Journal of Toxicology, which describes the toxicology of its SNAC carrier, SNAC achieved GRAS status for its intended use in combination with nutrients added to food and dietary supplements. The publication of those two papers in the International Journal of Toxicology was the final, necessary step in the process of obtaining GRAS status for its SNAC carrier. Since SNAC achieved GRAS status, it is exempt from pre-market approval for its intended use in combination with nutrients added to food and dietary supplements. This opens the way for the potential commercialization of the Eligen® Technology with other substances such as vitamins. The Company’s first product is its oral Eligen® Vitamin B12. During April 2009 we announced a strategic alliance with AAIPharma, Inc. intended to expand the application of Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology and AAIPharma’s drug development services. AAIPharma is a global provider of pharmaceutical product development services that enhance the therapeutic performance of its clients’ drugs. AAIPharma works with many pharmaceutical and biotech companies and currently provides drug product formulation development services to Emisphere. This relationship expands our access to new therapeutic candidates for the Eligen® Technology, which potentially could lead to new products and to new alliance agreements as well. We have obtained patents for the carrier we are using in the oral B12 formulation and have filed applications covering the combination of the carrier and many other compounds, including Vitamin B12. Phase III Programs On the prescription side of our business, both of our products in Phase III are with our partner Novartis, which is using our drug delivery technology in combination with salmon calcitonin, parathyroid hormone, and human growth hormone. Their most advanced programs are testing oral formulations of salmon calcitonin to treat osteoarthritis and osteoporosis. Novartis is conducting two Phase III clinical studies for osteoarthritis and one Phase III clinical study for osteoporosis. During the third quarter 2008, Novartis completed enrollment for the first trial for osteoarthritis; a multi-center Phase III study exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology to treat patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. This study, which will be used to support the filing with health authorities worldwide, includes more than 1,100 patients between the ages of 51 and 80 years with a medical history and symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. This study will be conducted mainly in Europe and is estimated to be completed during the second half 2010. In June 2009 Emisphere announced that Novartis Pharma AG and Nordic Bioscience had completed recruitment for a second multi-center Phase III study exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology to treat patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. This study, which is intended to be used to support a regulatory filing in the U.S., includes more than 900 patients between the ages of 51 and 80 with a medical history and symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. The two year study is being conducted in Europe, the U.S., and other countries and is estimated to be completed during the second half 2011. Approximately 21 million patients are managed for osteoarthritis in the U.S. alone, and that number is expected to increase as the baby boomer generation continues to age. Assuming a successful outcome of the Phase III program, this product candidate will also fulfill a substantial unmet need. Pre-clinical and Phase II data indicate that oral calcitonin could become the first disease-modifying osteoarthritis drug. Novartis is also conducting a Phase III trial for osteoporosis. This Phase III trial is a multi-center study exploring the safety and efficacy of oral Eligen® salmon calcitonin to treat vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, aged 60-80. The last of over 4,500 patients were recruited for the osteoporosis study in the final week of June 2008, and the three-year study is being conducted in North and South America, Europe and Asia. Since all three Phase III studies are fully enrolled, over 5,500 clinical study patients used the Eligen® Technology during 2009 and are expected to continue to use it during 2010 as these trials progress. According to the National Osteoporosis Foundation, 10 million people in the U.S. are estimated to have the disease with 34 million more estimated to have low bone mass and are, therefore, at risk. If 6 Table of Contents successful, this product candidate for the treatment of osteoporosis would satisfy an unmet market need, with oral salmon calcitonin expected to offer a safe, effective, and convenient alternative to existing therapies. During December 2009, the Company announced that an independent Data Monitoring Committee (“DMC”) informed Novartis and its partner Nordic Bioscience of their recommendation to proceed with the Osteoporosis Phase III Study 2303 and the Osteoarthritis Phase III Study 2301 exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin to treat patients with osteoporosis and osteoarthritis of the knee. This recommendation is based on a futility analysis of one-year data for all patients enrolled in the study for 12 months and includes both an assessment of safety and efficacy parameters. Based on this interim analysis, the DMC is of the opinion that there are no major or unexpected safety concerns and recommended proceeding with the studies to evaluate the efficacy and safety profile of oral calcitonin at two years as planned. Also during December 2009, the Company announced a meta-analysis published in the December 2009 edition of Rheumatology Reports examining independent evidence of the analgesic action of the hormone calcitonin. This publication restated the potential of calcitonin in filling a significant unmet need for alternative treatments for persistent musculoskeletal pain. Scientists from Nordic Bioscience were involved in the preparation of this meta-analysis. Non-malignant musculoskeletal pain is the most common clinical symptom that causes patients to seek medical attention and is a major cause of disability in the world. Musculoskeletal pain can arise from a variety of common conditions including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, surgery, low back pain and bone fracture. The meta-analysis, conducted by researchers at the Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction in the Department of Health Science and Technology at Aalborg University in Denmark, examined independent pre-clinical and clinical studies spanning nearly 45 years of the possible intrinsic analgesic properties of calcitonin, with special focus on the challenges in the musculoskeletal system. The authors concluded that well-designed clinical trials should be conducted to further validate evidence of calcitonin’s analgesic action and its promising potential role in the management of musculoskeletal pain. The effects of calcitonin on clinical pain conditions have received increasing attention in the past decades, although a consensus on mechanism-of-action and potential indications has not been reached. The analgesic activity of oral salmon calcitonin has been shown in several controlled prospective double-blind studies; besides pain management in osteoporosis, calcitonin has shown analgesic action in painful conditions such as phantom limb pain, diabetic neuropathy, complex regional pain syndrome, adhesive capsulitis, rheumatoid arthritis, vertebral crush fractures, spondylitis, tumor metastasis, cancer pain, migraine, Paget’s disease of bone as well as post-operative pain. An ideal treatment with an optimal efficacy, safety and convenience profile is not available for the musculoskeletal pain associated with such conditions as osteoporosis and osteoarthritis. This review of the literature highlights the clear unmet medical need that could be addressed by Emisphere’s oral salmon calcitonin product. Phase I Programs Emisphere also has several products in Phase I and a number of pre-clinical (research stage) projects. Some of the pre-clinical projects are partnered others are Emisphere-initiated. Novartis conducted a Phase I study in postmenopausal women to determine the safety and tolerability of oral PTH 1-34, a combination of human PTH 1-34 and Emisphere’s delivery agent 5-CNAC, for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The study is designed to assess the bioavailability profile of increasing doses of PTH 1-34 combined with different amounts of 5-CNAC administered orally. Study results demonstrating that a single dose of the novel oral parathyroid hormone PTH 1-34, which utilizes Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Drug Delivery Technology and absorption-enhancing carrier molecule 5-CNAC, achieved potentially therapeutically relevant exposure and safety profiles similar to those of the currently available injectable formulation in healthy postmenopausal women. The results, from a single-center, partially-blinded, incomplete cross-over study conducted by Emisphere’s partner Novartis, were presented October 19, 2009 in a poster session at the 73rd Annual Scientific Meeting of the American College of Rheumatology in Philadelphia. This study, designed to assess the exposure and safety of orally administered doses of PTH1-34 and different amounts of the absorption enhancer 5-CNAC was conducted in 32 healthy postmenopausal women. The subjects were randomized to receive a single dose of placebo, 20 mcg of subcutaneously injected parathyroid 7 Table of Contents hormone PTH1-34 (FORTEO®), or one of several orally administered doses of PTH1-34 formulated with either 100 or 200 mg of Emisphere’s absorption-enhancer 5-CNAC. While all doses of oral PTH1-34 were rapidly absorbed and showed appreciable blood concentrations in a dose-dependent manner, the 2.5 and 5 mg doses of oral PTH1-34 containing 200 mg 5-CNAC achieved exposure levels closest to those of 20 mcg injectable PTH1-34, with a comparable incidence of adverse events. Ionized calcium remained within normal limits in all treatment groups. The results of this study indicate we may be able to provide women with postmenopausal osteoporosis a more convenient oral option for parathyroid hormone therapy, which is now available only as an injection. There were no serious adverse events in the study. Nine participants withdrew from the study due to treatment-related AEs. Of those, five (one on placebo, one on FORTEO® and three on either 2.5 or 5 mg PTH1-34) withdrew because of symptomatic hypotension. Three patients on either 2.5 or 5 mg PTH1-34 withdrew because of delayed vomiting. One patient on 2.5mg PTH1-34 (100 mg 5-CNAC) withdrew because of symptomatic, but unconfirmed, hypercalcemia. PTH is produced by the parathyroid glands to regulate the amount of calcium and phosphorus in the body. When used therapeutically, it increases bone density and bone strength to help prevent fractures. It is approved to treat osteoporosis, a disease associated with a gradual thinning and weakening of the bones that occurs most frequently in women after menopause. Untreated postmenopausal osteoporosis can lead to chronic back pain, disabling fractures, and lost mobility. Novartis has also conducted Phase I studies with oral salmon calcitonin. During September 2009, Novartis and its partner, Nordic Bioscience, issued study results in which twice-daily oral salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Drug Delivery Technology significantly suppressed markers of cartilage and bone degradation versus placebo in men and women with osteoarthritis, the most common form of arthritis. The study, a Phase I, placebo-controlled, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, gender-stratified clinical trial, was conducted on behalf of Emisphere’s partner Novartis by Nordic Bioscience, and published online in the September 2009 issue of Osteoarthritis and Cartilage. A total of 73 male and female subjects aged 57 to 75 years with painful osteoarthritis of the knee received twice-daily 0.6 mg or 0.8 mg doses of oral salmon calcitonin with the Eligen® Technology or placebo administered over 14 days. Doses of 0.8mg compared with 0.6mg produced significantly higher Cmax and AUC(0-4 hrs), of calcitonin, P=0.03. This resulted in significant reductions in CTX-I and CTX-II which are biochemical markers of bone degradation and of cartilage degradation, respectively. Gender had no observable influence on results. Oral sCT doses were well tolerated; 44 adverse events and no serious adverse events were reported in this study. For further details please consult the original publication which is available online (Karsdal MA et al; The effect of oral salmon calcitonin delivered with 5-CNAC on bone and cartilage degradation in osteoarthritic patients: a 14-day randomized study; Osteoarthritis and Cartilage; available online September 1, 2009). Emerging data continue to indicate oral salmon calcitonin in combination with the Company’s absorption-enhancing Eligen® Technology may be a potential therapeutic option for women and men with osteoarthritis, which affects more than 20 million people in the United States. A study conducted by Novartis and Nordic Bioscience published in the December 2008 issue of BMC Clinical Pharmacology demonstrated that orally administered salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s carrier, (5-CNAC) an Eligen® oral delivery technology, is effective in reducing bone breakdown. The randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled study among 81 subjects in Copenhagen was conducted on behalf of Emisphere’s partner Novartis by Nordic Bioscience by M.A. Karsdal, I. Byrjalsen, B.J. Riis and C. Christiansen. The study suggests that orally administered 0.8 mg of salmon calcitonin was effective in suppression of Serum CTX irrespective of time of dosing. Serum CTX-1 (Serum C-terminal telo-peptide of collagen type I) is the biochemical marker used to measure bone resorption. There were no safety concerns with the salmon calcitonin oral formulation using Emisphere’s carrier 5-CNAC, which had been previously demonstrated in earlier studies. A study conducted by Novartis and Nordic Bioscience published in the October 2008 issue of BMC Clinical Pharmacology demonstrated that oral salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology taken 30 to 60 minutes before meals with 50 ml of water results in improved absorption and improved efficacy measured by the biomarker of reduced bone resorption (sCTX-I) compared to the commonly 8 Table of Contents prescribed nasal formulation. The study was a randomized, partially-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose exploratory crossover clinical trial conducted with 56 healthy postmenopausal women. For the treatment of Diabetes, research using the Eligen® Technology and GLP-1 (Glucagon-Like Peptide-1) , a potential treatment for Type 2 Diabetes is being conducted by Novo Nordisk A/S (Novo Nordisk) and by Dr. Christoph Beglinger, M.D., of the Clinical Research Center, Department of Biomedicine Division of Gastroenterology, and Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology at University Hospital in Basel, Switzerland. We had previously conducted extensive tests on oral insulin for Type 1 Diabetes and concluded that a more productive pathway is to move forward with GLP-1 and its analogs, an oral form of which might be used to treat Type 2 Diabetes and related conditions. Our research indicated that the development of oral formulations of Novo Nordisk proprietary GLP-1 receptor agonists may represent an opportunity for Emisphere. Consequently, on June 21, 2008 we entered into an exclusive Development and License Agreement with Novo Nordisk focused on the development of oral formulations of Novo Nordisk’s proprietary GLP-1 receptor agonists. Under such Agreement Emisphere could receive more than $87 million in contingent product development and sales milestone payments including a $10 million non-refundable license fee which was received during June 2008. Emisphere would also be entitled to receive royalties in the event Novo Nordisk commercializes products developed under such Agreement. Under the terms of the Agreement, Novo Nordisk is responsible for the development and commercialization of the products. Initially Novo Nordisk is focusing on the development of oral formulations of its proprietary GLP-1 receptor agonists. During January 2010, we announced that Novo Nordisk had initiated its first Phase I clinical trial with a long-acting oral GLP-1 analogue (NN9924). This milestone released a $2 million payment to Emisphere, whose proprietary Eligen® Technology is used in the formulation of NN9924. GLP-1 is a natural hormone involved in controlling blood sugar levels. It stimulates the release of insulin only when blood sugar levels become too high. GLP-1 secretion is often impaired in people with Type 2 Diabetes. The aim of this trial, which is being conducted in the UK, is to investigate the safety, tolerability and bioavailability of NN9924 in healthy volunteers. The trial will enroll approximately 155 individuals and results from the trial are expected in 2011. There are many challenges in developing an oral formulation of GLP-1, in particular obtaining adequate bioavailability. NN9924 addresses some of these key challenges by utilizing Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology to facilitate absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. Genta released final results from the Company’s Phase I clinical trial of G4544, a new tablet formulation of a proprietary small molecule intended as a treatment for diseases associated with accelerated bone loss using Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology. Results showed that the drug was very well-tolerated, and that blood levels were achieved in a range that is known to be clinically bioactive. The data were featured in a poster session at the Annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (“ASCO”) in Chicago during May 2008. Preclinical Programs Our preclinical programs focus on the development of oral formulations of potentially new treatments for Diabetes and products in the areas of cardiovascular and pain and on the development and potential expansion of nutritional supplement products. An early stage human study of an oral formulation that combines PYY and native GLP-1 with Emisphere’s proprietary delivery agent known as SNAC was conducted at University Hospital in Basel, Switzerland by Professor Beglinger. The study demonstrated the oral delivery of the GLP-1 peptide was safe and effective and that the oral formulation of GLP-1 stimulated an early increase in fasting insulin and a decrease in fasting glucose as compared to placebo. An article published in the September 2009 issue of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, describes previously reported findings of an independent clinical study designed to assess the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) and safety of oral administration of the peptide GLP-1 utilizing Emisphere’s Eligen® carrier technology. The study was conducted at the University Hospital in Basel, Switzerland by Professor Beglinger. The paper, titled “Orally Administered Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 Affects Glucose Homeostasis Following an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test in Healthy Male Subjects,” was published by Steinert, 9 Table of Contents et.al. Publication of this data in a prominent peer reviewed journal underscores the potential of the Eligen® Technology to transform oral peptide delivery. Specifically, the data further supports the concept of the potential advantages of utilizing GLP-1 and similar molecules as therapeutic agents in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes. As described in the publication, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover trial was conducted in 16 healthy male subjects between the ages of 20 and 43. The study was designed to investigate the PK/PD effects of a single dose (2 mg) of oral GLP-1 formulated with Emisphere’s Sodium N-[8-(2-hydroxybenzoyl) Amino] Caprylate (“SNAC”) carrier (150 mg) administered 15 minutes prior to an oral glucose tolerance test. The published data show that the orally administered peptide, when administered with Emisphere’s SNAC® carrier, is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, leading to tenfold higher plasma concentrations compared to control. The pharmacodynamic effects were consistent with the known pharmacology of GLP-1, resulting in significantly increased basal insulin release (P< 0.027), and marked effects on glucose levels. The postprandial glucose peak was delayed with GLP-1, suggesting an effect on gastric emptying. No adverse events were reported. During May 2009 the Company announced data from a clinical study conducted by Dr. Beglinger designed to assess the effect of oral administration of two peptides, GLP-1 and PYY3-36, utilizing Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology on appetite suppression. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in 16 normal weight males between the ages of 18 and 40. The study was designed to investigate the effects of orally administered GLP-1 and PYY3-36 formulated with Emisphere’s Sodium N-[8-(2-hydroxybenzoyl) Amino] Caprylate (“SNAC”) carrier and their potential effect in the control of food intake and satiety. Prior studies have shown the ability of both peptides to reduce appetite and food consumption in healthy subjects and in patients with obesity. The study concluded that these orally administered peptides, when delivered with Emisphere’s SNAC carrier, were rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, leading to concentrations several times higher than endogenous hormone levels achieved after a standard test meal. Specifically, results showed that oral GLP-1 (2 mg tablet) alone and the combination of oral GLP-1 (2 mg tablet) plus PYY3-36 (1 mg tablet) induced a significant reduction in calorie intake although there was no synergistic effect when the two peptides were used in combination. Oral PYY3-36 at a 1 mg dose by itself, did not significantly reduce calorie intake. Oral GLP-1 (2 mg tablet) and oral PYY3-36 (1 mg tablet) were both shown to induce a rapid increase in plasma GLP-1 concentrations and plasma PYY concentrations, respectively. This new data represents further evidence of the ability of the Eligen® Technology, and the SNAC carrier, to enhance oral absorption of peptides which normally exhibit low oral bioavailability. In this case, GLP-1 alone, and the combination of the two peptides together, were able to cross the gastrointestinal tract into the bloodstream in high enough concentrations to significantly affect appetite. In October 2008, Professor Beglinger published the results of another study assessing the oral delivery of GLP-1 and PYY3-36 using Emisphere’s proprietary delivery technology. The study was conducted at University Hospital in Basel, Switzerland and showed, for the first time, that satiety peptides such as GLP-1 and PYY3-36 can be delivered orally in humans with safety and efficiency. The study, conducted in 12 healthy subjects, was designed to establish the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of increasing oral doses of GLP-1 and PYY3-36. Emisphere’s delivery agent, known as SNAC, was formulated as a tablet with GLP-1 or PYY3-36. Both oral GLP-1 and PYY3-36 induce rapid and dose-dependent increases in plasma drug concentrations; GLP-1 induces a relevant insulin release; and, both peptides suppressed ghrelin secretion in healthy male volunteers. This clinical study of the compound confirms Professor Beglinger’s earlier results that SNAC allows for rapid oral absorption of GLP-1 or PYY3-36. The study results were published in the October 2008 issue of Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics. Intravenous or subcutaneous applications of GLP-1 are cumbersome and impractical for chronic treatment regimens. Current oral application of peptides is ineffective because peptides have a low oral bioavailability due to their molecular size and physico-chemical characteristics. Professor Beglinger’s studies show that Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology can overcome some of these oral delivery issues safely and efficiently. During June 2009 the Company entered into a research agreement with Syracuse University to combine Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology with a new oral drug delivery system developed in the laboratory of Robert Doyle, Assistant Professor of Chemistry in Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences. The experiments will test whether the combination of Eligen® and Doyle’s oral drug delivery technology will 10 Table of Contents enhance the absorption of an appetite-suppressing hormone. Dr. Doyle and his colleagues have successfully developed innovative methods for the oral delivery of both proteins and peptides using novel methods. There may be significant potential for innovation in this partnership and an opportunity for further expansion for the use of the Eligen® Technology in the drug delivery arena. Researchers in Doyle’s lab are trying to find a way to create an appetite-suppressing drug using PYY that can be taken orally rather than by injection. PYY is a hormone that is released by the cells lining the small intestine after people eat, which signals feelings of “fullness.” Recent research has shown that the higher the level of PYY in the bloodstream, the greater the feeling of fullness. The Eligen® Technology platform has shown great promise for improving the body’s ability to absorb both small and large molecule drugs. Dr. Doyle and his colleagues at Syracuse University are interested in assessing its ability to overcome the limited natural absorption of their vitamin based carrier to achieve significant advancements in oral protein/peptide delivery. Our other product candidates in development are in earlier or preclinical research phases, and we continue to assess them for their compatibility with our technology and market need. Our intent is to seek partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for certain of these products as we continue to expand our pipeline with product candidates that demonstrate significant opportunities for growth. Our focus is on molecules that meet the criteria for success based on our increased understanding of our Eligen® Technology. Business Financing Since our inception in 1986, we have generated significant losses from operations. However, during 2009 we introduced our first commercial product and anticipate introducing our second commercial product during 2010. Although we cannot assure the commercial success of these products, at some point in the future, potential combined sales or partnerships may generate sufficient net proceeds to offset a part of continuing losses from operations for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $436.7 million. Our loss from operations was $14.6 million, $26.3 million and $20.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our net loss was $21.2 million, $24.4 million and $16.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our net cash outlays from operations and capital expenditures were $11.9 million, $6.8 million and $14.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net cash outlays for 2008 include $11.3 million receipts of deferred revenue and 2007 included $11.9 million receipts from the settlement of lawsuit. Our stockholders’ deficit was $47.9 million, $37.0 million and $13.7 million as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On December 1, 2004 we issued a $10 million convertible note (the “Novartis Note”) to Novartis in connection with a research collaboration option relating to the development of PTH-1-34. The Novartis Note was originally due December 1, 2009. On November 27, 2009, Novartis agreed to extend the maturity date of the Novartis Note to February 26, 2010. Subsequently, on February 23, 2010, Novartis agreed to further extend the maturity date of the Novartis Note to May 26, 2010. We have limited capital resources and operations to date have been funded with the proceeds from collaborative research agreements, public and private equity and debt financings and income earned on investments. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to continue operations through approximately June 2010 or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. While our plan is to raise capital when needed and/or to pursue partnering opportunities, we cannot be sure that our plans will be successful. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit reports prepared by our independent registered public accounting firms relating to our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 include an explanatory paragraph expressing the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are successful in raising additional capital to continue operations, our business will still require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. Further, we will not have sufficient resources to fully develop new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing on acceptable terms or secure funds from new or existing partners. We cannot assure you that financing will be available on favorable terms or at all. See Item 1A-Risk Factors. 11 Table of Contents Overview of Drug Delivery Industry The drug delivery industry develops technologies for the improved administration of therapeutic molecules with the goal of expanding markets for existing products and extending drug franchises. Drug delivery companies also seek to develop products on their own that would be patent-protected by applying proprietary technologies to off-patent pharmaceutical products. Primarily, drug delivery technologies are focused on improving safety, efficacy, ease of patient use and/or patient compliance. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies consider improved drug delivery as a means of gaining competitive advantage over their peers. Therapeutic macromolecules, of which proteins are the largest sub-class, are prime targets for the drug delivery industry for a number of reasons. Most therapeutic macromolecules must currently be administered by injection (most common) or other device such as an inhaler or nasal spray system. Many of these compounds address large markets for which there is an established medical need. These drugs are widely used, as physicians are familiar with them and accustomed to prescribing them. Therapeutic macromolecules could be significantly enhanced through alternative delivery. These medicines are comprised of proteins and other large or highly charged molecules (carbohydrates, peptides, ribonucleic acids) that, if orally administered using traditional oral delivery methods, would degrade in the stomach or intestine before they are absorbed into the bloodstream. Also, these molecules are typically not absorbed following oral administration due to their poor permeability. Therefore, the vast majority are administered parenterally. However, for many reasons, parenteral administration is undesirable, including patient discomfort, inconvenience and risk of infection. Poor patient acceptance of parenteral therapies can lead to medical complications. In addition, parenteral therapies can often require incremental costs associated with administration in hospitals or doctors’ offices. Previously published research indicates that patient acceptance of and adherence to a dosing regimen is higher for orally delivered medications than it is for non-orally delivered medications. Our business strategy is partly based upon our belief that the development of an efficient and safe oral delivery system for therapeutic macromolecules represents a significant commercial opportunity. We believe that more patients will take orally delivered drugs more often, spurring market expansion. Leading Current Approaches to Drug Delivery Transdermal (via the skin) and “Needleless” Injection The size of most macromolecules makes penetration into or through the skin inefficient or ineffective. Some peptides and proteins can be transported across the skin barrier into the bloodstream using high-pressure “needleless” injection devices. Needleless devices, which inject proteins through the skin into the body, have been in development for many years. We believe these devices have not been well accepted due to patient discomfort, relatively high cost, and the inconvenience of placing the drugs into the device. Nasal (via the nose) The nasal route (through the membranes of the nasal passage) of drug administration has been limited by low and variable bioavailability for proteins and peptides. As a result, penetration enhancers often are used with nasal delivery to increase bioavailability. These enhancers may cause local irritation to the nasal tissue and may result in safety concerns with long-term use. A limited number of peptides delivered nasally have been approved for marketing in the U.S. including MIACALCIN®, developed by Novartis as an osteoporosis therapy, a therapeutic area we have targeted. Pulmonary (via the lung) Pulmonary delivery (through the membranes of the lungs) of drugs is emerging as a delivery route for large molecules. Although local delivery of respiratory drugs to the lungs is common, the systemic delivery (i.e., delivery of the drugs to the peripheral vasculature) of macromolecular drugs is less common because it requires new formulations and delivery technologies to achieve efficient, safe and reproducible dosing. Only one protein using pulmonary delivery has been approved for marketing in the U.S., which is EXUBERA®, an 12 Table of Contents insulin product developed by Pfizer and Nektar, as a Diabetes therapy, a therapeutic area we have targeted. However after market acceptance of EXUBERA® was demonstrated to be limited, Pfizer withdrew from further commercialization of, and terminated its license with Nektar for EXUBERA®. Intraoral (via the membranes in the mouth) Intraoral delivery is also emerging as a delivery route for large molecules. Buccal delivery (through the membrane of the cheek) and sublingual delivery (through the membrane under the tongue) are forms of intraoral delivery. Some Vitamin B12 manufactures sell and distribute sublingual versions of their product. Oral (via the mouth) We believe that the oral method of administration is the most patient-friendly option, in that it offers convenience, is a familiar method of administration that enables increased compliance and, for some therapies, may be considered the most physiologically appropriate. We, and other drug delivery and pharmaceutical companies, have developed or are developing technologies for oral delivery of drugs. We believe that our Eligen® Technology provides an important competitive advantage in the oral route of administration because it does not alter the chemical composition of the therapeutic macromolecules. We have conducted over 140,000 human dosings and have witnessed no serious adverse events that can be attributed to the EMISPHERE® delivery agents dosed or the mechanism of action of the Eligen® Technology. In general, we believe that oral administration will be preferred to other methods of administration. However, such preference may be offset by possible negative attributes of orally administered drugs such as the quantity or frequency of the dosage, the physical size of the capsule or tablet being swallowed or the taste. For example, in our previous Phase III trial with heparin as an oral liquid formulation, patient compliance was hindered by patients’ distaste for the liquid being administered. In addition, patients and the marketplace will more likely respond favorably to improvements in absorption, efficacy, safety, or other attributes of therapeutic molecules. It is possible that greater convenience alone may not lead to success. The Eligen® Technology The Eligen® Technology is a broadly applicable proprietary oral drug delivery technology based on the use of proprietary synthetic chemical compounds known as EMISPHERE® delivery agents, or carriers. These delivery agents facilitate and enable the transport of therapeutic macromolecules (such as proteins, peptides, and polysaccharides) and poorly absorbed small molecules across biological membranes targeted in the stomach; enabling the therapeutic molecules to exert their desired pharmacological effect. The delivery agents have no known pharmacological activity themselves at the intended clinical dose levels. Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology makes it possible to deliver therapeutic molecules orally without altering their chemical form or biological integrity. Proposed Delivery Agent Mechanism The Eligen® Technology facilitates absorption in the stomach and takes place through a transcellular, not paracellular, pathway. This underscores the safety of Eligen® as the passage of the Eligen® carrier and the molecule preserve the integrity of the tight junctions within the cell and reduces any likelihood of inflammatory processes and autoimmune gastrointestinal diseases. Furthermore, because Eligen® Technology carriers are rapidly absorbed, metabolized and eliminated from the body; they do not accumulate in the organs and tissues and are considered safe at anticipated dose and dosing regimens. Drug molecules exist in many different shapes, or “conformations.” Some conformations can be transported across the cell membranes while others are too large or too charged to do so. The Eligen® Technology uses the body’s natural passive transcellular transport process to enable large or highly charged molecules to cross cell membranes. Once the drug molecule crosses the membrane, the EMISPHERE® delivery agent dissociates from the drug molecule, which then reestablishes its natural conformation and returns to its therapeutically active state. Studies have shown that this process does not involve chemical modification of the drug molecule and the integrity of cell membrane and cytoskeletal structure are maintained. 13 Table of Contents We have designed and synthesized a library of approximately 4,000 delivery agents and continue to evaluate our delivery agents for their ability to facilitate the delivery of therapeutic macromolecules across biological membranes. Ongoing Collaborative Agreements We are a party to certain collaborative agreements with corporate partners to provide development and commercialization services relating to the products under collaboration. These agreements are in the form of research and development collaborations and licensing agreements. Under these agreements, we have granted licenses or the rights to obtain licenses to our oral drug delivery technology. In return, we are entitled to receive certain payments upon the achievement of milestones and royalties on the sales of the products should a product ultimately be commercialized. We also are entitled to be reimbursed for certain research and development costs that we incur. All of our collaborative agreements are subject to termination by our corporate partners, without significant financial penalty to them. Under the terms of these agreements, upon a termination we are entitled to reacquire all rights in our technology at no cost and are free to re-license the technology to other collaborative partners. Novartis Pharma AG — Oral Salmon Calcitonin (“sCT”) Program for Osteoporosis and Osteoarthritis During December 2009, the Company announced that an independent Data Monitoring Committee (“DMC”) informed Novartis and its partner Nordic Bioscience about their recommendation to proceed with the Osteoporosis Phase III Study 2303 and the Osteoarthritis Phase III Study 2301 exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin to treat patients with osteoporosis and osteoarthritis of the knee. This recommendation is based on a futility analysis of one-year data for all patients enrolled in the study for 12 months and includes both an assessment of safety and efficacy parameters. Based on this interim analysis, the DMC is of the opinion that there are no major or unexpected safety concerns and recommended proceeding with the studies to evaluate the efficacy and safety profile of oral calcitonin at two years as planned. Within the various Phase III trials with Novartis, over 5,500 patients are using the Eligen® Technology during 2010. To date, we have received $12.4 million in payments from Novartis under the sCT programs. Under the terms of the sCT agreement, we may receive up to $5 million in additional milestone payments, as well as royalties based on sales. Osteoporosis In December 1997, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Novartis to develop an oral form of sCT, currently used to treat osteoporosis. sCT is a hormone that inhibits the bone-tissue resorbing activity of specialized bone cells called osteoclasts, enabling the bone to retain more of its mass and functionality. sCT has demonstrated efficacy in increasing lumbar spine bone mineral density and in reducing vertebral fractures. sCT is estimated to be about 30 times more potent than the human version. Synthetic sCT, which is identical to the naturally occurring one, currently is available only as a nasal spray or injectable therapy. Novartis markets synthetic sCT in the U.S. as MIACALCIN® nasal spray, which is indicated for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis in women greater than five years post menopause with low bone mass. Treatment with sCT has been shown to increase bone mineral density in the spine and reduce the risk of new vertebral fractures in post-menopausal women with osteoporosis. It is also used to treat Paget’s disease, a disease that results in, among other things, bone pain and breakdown. In its nasal spray forms, it is believed that sCT’s major advantages are its efficacy resulting from a lack of serious side effects, excellent long-term safety profile and ease of administration. Some studies even suggest that sCT produces an analgesic effect. Worldwide market sales for products to treat osteoporosis are forecasted to reach $10.4 billion by 2011, from approximately $5.0 billion in 2003. 14 Table of Contents In February 2003, we announced favorable results of a Phase IIa study conducted by Novartis evaluating the performance in post-menopausal women of an oral tablet form of sCT. The purpose of the study was to assess the efficacy and safety of various doses of an oral tablet of sCT in post-menopausal women and to confirm the activity of sCT when given orally, as reflected by changes in markers of bone formation or resorption. Oral sCT was dosed for 90 days in the study, the longest time period that the Eligen® Technology has been dosed in human testing. The study demonstrated activity on bone markers over a three month dosing period when the peptide was delivered in combination with the EMISPHERE® delivery agent. Only two serious adverse events were reported, neither of which were related to the EMISPHERE® delivery agent or to sCT. The side effects (mainly gastrointestinal in nature) seen with the highest doses of sCT were consistent with those normally seen with high plasma levels of sCT when administered by injection. These results were presented by Novartis at the American Society of Bone and Mineral Research in September of 2003. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study was conducted for three months in OA patients to assess the efficacy of this novel form of sCT in patients suffering from knee OA. Patients received daily either a placebo (n=16), 0.5 mg of oral sCT (n=17) or 1 mg of oral sCT (n=18). In February 2007, Novartis and its development partner Nordic Bioscience notified us of the initiation of a Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of osteoporosis with an oral form of salmon calcitonin (referred to as SMC021), a new drug candidate, using the Company’s Eligen® Technology. The Phase III program that started in 2007 is a three year trial with enrollment of over 4,500 patients completed in June 2008. The study is exploring the safety and efficacy of salmon calcitonin and Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology in the treatment of vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women aged 60-80 with osteoporosis. It will be conducted in North and South America, Europe and Asia. This product candidate, if successful, will meet an unmet market need, with oral calcitonin expected to offer a safe, effective, and convenient alternative to existing therapies. A study conducted by Novartis and its partner Nordic Bioscience published in the December 2008 issue of BMC Clinical Pharmacology demonstrated that orally administered salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s carrier, (5-CNAC) an Eligen® oral delivery technology, is effective in reducing bone breakdown. The randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled study among 81 subjects in Copenhagen was conducted on behalf of Emisphere’s partner Novartis Pharma AG by Nordic Bioscience by M.A. Karsdal, I. Byrjalsen, B.J. Riis and C. Christiansen. The study suggests that orally administered 0.8 mg of salmon calcitonin was effective in suppression of Serum CTX irrespective of time of dosing. Serum CTX-1 (Serum C-terminal telo-peptide of collagen type I) is the biochemical marker used to measure bone resorption. There were no safety concerns with the salmon calcitonin oral formulation using Emisphere’s carrier 5-CNAC, which had been previously demonstrated in earlier studies. A study conducted by Novartis and its partner Nordic Bioscience published in the October 2008 issue of BMC Clinical Pharmacology demonstrated that oral salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology taken 30 to 60 minutes before meals with 50 ml of water results in improved absorption and improved efficacy measured by the biomarker of reduced bone resorption (sCTX-I) compared to the commonly prescribed nasal formulation. The study was a randomized, partially-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose exploratory crossover clinical trial using 56 healthy postmenopausal women. According to the National Osteoporosis Foundation, 10 million people in the U.S. are estimated to have the disease with 34 million more estimated to have low bone mass and are, therefore, at risk. If successful, this product candidate for the treatment of osteoporosis would satisfy an unmet market need, with oral salmon calcitonin expected to offer a safe, effective, and convenient alternative to existing therapies. Under the sCT agreements, Novartis has an option to an exclusive worldwide license to develop in conjunction with us, make, have made, use and sell products developed under this program. Novartis also had the right to exercise an option to commence a research collaboration with us on a second compound under this agreement. Novartis’ rights to certain specified financial terms concerning a license of a second compound have since expired. We have no payment obligations with respect to this program; we are, however, obligated to collaborate with Novartis by providing access to our technology that is relevant to this program. We are also obligated to help to manage this program through a joint “steering committee” with Novartis. 15 Table of Contents Osteoarthritis On a parallel track, Novartis is also pursuing an osteoarthritis indication for salmon calcitonin. Approximately 21 million patients are managed for osteoarthritis in the U.S. alone, and that number is expected to increase as the baby boomer generation continues to age. Osteoarthritis (“OA”) is a clinical syndrome in which low-grade inflammation results in joint pain, caused by a wearing-away of cartilage that cushions the joints and the destruction or decrease of synovial fluid that lubricates those joints. As OA progresses, pain can result when the patient bears weight upon the joints, including walking and standing. OA is the most common form of arthritis, and affects nearly 21 million people in the U.S., accounting for 25% of visits to primary care physicians, and half of all non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug prescriptions. It is estimated that 80% of the population will have radiographic evidence of OA by age 65. Novartis is engaged in two, simultaneous Phase III trials for salmon calcitonin in the treatment of osteoarthritis. During September 2008, Novartis and Nordic Bioscience completed recruitment for a multi-center Phase III study exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology to treat patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. This study, which will be used to support the filing with health authorities worldwide, includes more than 1,100 patients between 51 and 80 years old with a medical history and symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. The study will be conducted mainly in Europe and is estimated to be completed during second half 2010. During October 2008, Novartis and Nordic Bioscience initiated a second multi-center Phase III study exploring the safety and efficacy of an oral formulation of salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology to treat patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. This second study, designed to meet FDA requirements for U.S. registration, will examine patients between 51 and 80 years old suffering from painful symptoms of knee osteoarthritis. The study will be conducted in multiple sites, including the U.S. Enrollment is scheduled to be completed during 2009 with an estimated completion during the second half of 2011. During September 2009, Novartis and its partner, Nordic Bioscience, issued study results in which twice-daily oral salmon calcitonin using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology significantly suppressed markers of cartilage and bone degradation versus placebo in men and women with osteoarthritis, the most common form of arthritis. The study, a Phase I, placebo-controlled, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, gender-stratified clinical trial, was conducted on behalf of Emisphere’s partner Novartis Pharma AG by Nordic Bioscience, and published online in the September 2009 issue of Osteoarthritis and Cartilage. A total of 73 male and female subjects aged 57 to 75 years with painful osteoarthritis of the knee received twice-daily 0.6 mg or 0.8 mg doses of oral salmon calcitonin with the Eligen® Technology or placebo administered over 14 days. Doses of 0.8mg compared with 0.6mg produced significantly higher Cmax and AUC(0-4 hrs), of calcitonin, P=0.03. This resulted in significant reductions in CTX-I and CTX-II which are biochemical markers of bone degradation and of cartilage degradation, respectively. Gender had no observable influence on results. Oral sCT doses were well tolerated; 44 adverse events and no serious adverse events were reported in this study. For further details please consult the original publication which is available online (Karsdal MA et al; The effect of oral salmon calcitonin delivered with 5-CNAC on bone and cartilage degradation in osteoarthritic patients: a 14-day randomized study; Osteoarthritis and Cartilage; available online September 1, 2009). Emerging data continue to indicate oral salmon calcitonin in combination with the Company’s absorption-enhancing Eligen® Technology may be a potential therapeutic option for women and men with osteoarthritis, which affects more than 20 million people in the United States. In December 2005, we announced positive clinical data generated by Drs. Daniel Manicourt and Jean-Pierre Devogelaer from the Department of Rheumatology at the University Hospital St-Luc, Universite Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium. The results of this study, which evaluated oral salmon calcitonin supplied by Novartis using our Eligen® Technology in treating osteoarthritis (“OA”) were presented at the 10th World Congress of the Osteoarthritis Research Society International in Boston, MA. Results of this study suggest that oral sCT (enabled by our proprietary Eligen® Technology licensed to Novartis for use with sCT) exhibits not only clinical efficacy but also reduces the levels of several biochemical markers of joint metabolism, which all have been shown to have a pejorative prognostic value of the OA disease process in longitudinal studies including large cohorts of patients. 16 Table of Contents Assuming a successful outcome of the Phase III program, this product candidate will also fulfill a substantial unmet medical need. Pre-clinical and Phase II data indicate that oral salmon calcitonin could become the first disease modifying osteoarthritis drug. Other Potential Applications of Salmon Calcitonin (“sCT”) During December 2009, the Company announced a meta-analysis published in the December 2009 edition of Rheumatology Reports examining independent evidence of the analgesic action of the hormone calcitonin. This publication restated the potential of calcitonin in filling a significant unmet need for alternative treatments for persistent musculoskeletal pain. Scientists from Nordic Bioscience were involved in the preparation of this meta-analysis. Non-malignant musculoskeletal pain is the most common clinical symptom that causes patients to seek medical attention and is a major cause of disability in the world. Musculoskeletal pain can arise from a variety of common conditions including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, surgery, low back pain and bone fracture. The meta-analysis, conducted by researchers at the Center for Sensory-Motor Interaction in the Department of Health Science and Technology at Aalborg University in Denmark, examined independent pre-clinical and clinical studies spanning nearly 45 years of the possible intrinsic analgesic properties of calcitonin, with special focus on the challenges in the musculoskeletal system. The authors concluded that well-designed clinical trials should be conducted to further validate evidence of calcitonin’s analgesic action and its promising potential role in the management of musculoskeletal pain. The effects of calcitonin on clinical pain conditions have received increasing attention in the past decades, although a consensus on mechanism-of-action and potential indications has not been reached. The analgesic activity of oral salmon calcitonin has been shown in several controlled prospective double-blind studies; besides pain management in osteoporosis, calcitonin has shown analgesic action in painful conditions such as phantom limb pain, diabetic neuropathy, complex regional pain syndrome, adhesive capsulitis, rheumatoid arthritis, vertebral crush fractures, spondylitis, tumor metastasis, cancer pain, migraine, Paget’s disease of bone as well as post-operative pain. An ideal treatment with an optimal efficacy, safety and convenience profile is not available for the musculoskeletal pain associated with such conditions as osteoporosis and osteoarthritis. This review of the literature highlights the clear unmet medical need that could be addressed by Emisphere’s oral salmon calcitonin product. Novartis Pharma AG — Oral PTH-1-34 Program On December 1, 2004, we entered into a Research Collaboration Option and License Agreement with Novartis whereby Novartis obtained an option to license our existing technology to develop oral forms of PTH-1-34. At the time we entered this new agreement, Novartis also purchased from us a $10 million convertible note (“the Novartis Note”) which was originally due December 1, 2009 that we may repay, at our option, in either stock or cash. On March 7, 2006, Novartis exercised its option to the license. Based on the terms of the agreement, we may receive milestone payments totaling up to a maximum of $30 million, plus royalties on sales of product developed using our Eligen® Technology. Novartis will fund all necessary pre-clinical, clinical and manufacturing costs for all products. The Novartis Note was originally due December 1, 2009. On November 27, 2009, Novartis agreed to extend the maturity date to February 26, 2010. On February 23, 2010, Novartis agreed to extend the maturity date to May 26, 2010. Parathyroid hormone continues on a progressive clinical development path in collaboration with Novartis. During June 2008, Novartis launched a Phase I study in postmenopausal women to determine the safety and tolerability of oral PTH-1-34, a combination of human PTH-1-34 and the absorption enhancer 5-CNAC using Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology, for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The study is designed to assess the bioavailability profile of increasing doses of PTH-1-34 combined with different amounts of 5-CNAC administered orally. The trial was conducted in Switzerland and its first interpretable results were released during November 2008. The results of the study demonstrated the achievement of a suitable PK profile of a new oral formulation of Parathyroid Hormone (“PTH”) using Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology. This initial study of 20 healthy postmenopausal female patients aged 40 to 70 years resulted in peak concentrations (Cmax) in the range of those obtained with the commercially available subcutaneous formulation FORTEO (teriparatide). This initial 17 Table of Contents trial reported no significant adverse affects, no hypocalcaemia, and no drug-exposure related discontinuation. The plan is to continue the development program. Recombinant PTH, currently approved for the treatment of osteoporosis, is available only by injection. PTH exists naturally in the body; it increases bone density and bone strength to help prevent fractures. It may also be used to treat osteoporosis in patients at high risk of bone fracture. Novartis also conducted a Phase I study in postmenopausal women to determine the safety and tolerability of oral PTH 1-34, a combination of human PTH 1-34 and Emisphere’s delivery agent 5-CNAC, for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The study was designed to assess the pharmacokinetic profile of increasing doses of PTH 1-34 combined with different amounts of 5-CNAC administered orally. Study results demonstrated that a single dose of the novel oral parathyroid hormone PTH 1-34, which utilizes Emisphere’s proprietary Eligen® Technology and absorption-enhancer carrier molecule 5-CNAC, achieved potentially therapeutically relevant exposure and safety profiles similar to those of the currently available injectable formulation in healthy postmenopausal women. The results from this single-center, partially-blinded, incomplete cross-over study conducted by Emisphere’s partner Novartis, were presented October 19, 2009 in a poster session at the 73rd Annual Scientific Meeting of the American College of Rheumatology in Philadelphia. This study, designed to assess the exposure and safety of orally administered doses of PTH1-34 and different amounts of the absorption enhancer 5-CNAC was conducted in 32 healthy postmenopausal women. The subjects were randomized to receive a single dose of placebo, 20 mcg of subcutaneously injected parathyroid hormone PTH1-34 (FORTEO®), or one of several orally administered doses of PTH1-34 formulated with either 100 or 200 mg of Emisphere’s absorption-enhancer 5-CNAC. While all doses of oral PTH1-34 were rapidly absorbed and showed appreciable blood concentrations in a dose-dependent manner, the 2.5 and 5 mg doses of oral PTH1-34 containing 200 mg 5-CNAC achieved exposure levels closest to those of 20 mcg injectable PTH1-34, with a comparable incidence of adverse events. Ionized calcium remained within normal limits in all treatment groups. The results of this study indicates we may be able to provide women with postmenopausal osteoporosis a more convenient oral option for parathyroid hormone therapy, which is now available only as an injection. There were no serious adverse events in the study. Nine participants withdrew from the study due to treatment-related AEs. Of those, five (one on placebo, one on FORTEO® and three on either 2.5 or 5 mg PTH1-34) withdrew because of symptomatic hypotension. Three patients on either 2.5 or 5 mg PTH1-34 withdrew because of delayed vomiting. One patient on 2.5mg PTH1-34 (100 mg 5-CNAC) withdrew because of symptomatic, but unconfirmed, hypercalcemia. PTH is produced by the parathyroid glands to regulate the amount of calcium and phosphorus in the body. When used therapeutically, it increases bone density and bone strength to help prevent fractures. It is approved to treat osteoporosis, a disease associated with a gradual thinning and weakening of the bones that occurs most frequently in women after menopause. Untreated postmenopausal osteoporosis can lead to chronic back pain, disabling fractures, and lost mobility. Novartis Pharma AG — Oral Recombinant Human Growth Hormone Program From 1998 through August 2003, we developed oral rhGH in collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company (“Lilly”). As of August 2003, Lilly returned to us all rights to the oral rhGH program pursuant to the terms of our license agreement. On September 23, 2004 we announced a new partnership with Novartis to develop our oral rhGH program. Under this collaboration, we are working with Novartis to initiate clinical trials of a convenient oral human growth hormone product using the Eligen® Technology. On May 1, 2006, we announced that Novartis will initiate the development of an oral rhGH product using Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology. Under this agreement, Novartis has an exclusive worldwide license to develop, make, have made, use and sell products developed under this program. We have no payment obligations with respect to this program; we are, however, obligated to collaborate with Novartis by providing access to our technology that is relevant to this program. We are also obligated to help to manage this program through a joint “steering committee” with Novartis. 18 Table of Contents To date, we have received $6 million in non-refundable payments from Novartis under this program, including the $5 million milestone payment received in 2006. We may receive up to $28 million in additional milestone payments during the course of product development and royalties based on sales. Novo Nordisk AS Agreement On June 21, 2008, we entered into an exclusive Development and License Agreement with Novo Nordisk pursuant to which Novo Nordisk will develop and commercialize oral formulations of Novo Nordisk proprietary products in combination with Emisphere carriers. Under such agreement Emisphere could receive more than $87 million in contingent product development and sales milestone payments, including a $10 million non-refundable license fee which was received in June 2008. Emisphere would also be entitled to receive royalties in the event Novo Nordisk commercializes products developed under such Agreement. Under the Agreement, Novo Nordisk is responsible for the development and commercialization of the products. During January 2010, we announced that Novo Nordisk had initiated its first Phase I clinical trial with a long-acting oral GLP-1 analogue (NN9924). This milestone released a $2 million payment to Emisphere, whose proprietary Eligen® Technology is used in the formulation of NN9924. GLP-1 (Glucagon-Like Peptide-1) is a natural hormone involved in controlling blood sugar levels. It stimulates the release of insulin only when blood sugar levels become too high. GLP-1 secretion is often impaired in people with Type 2 Diabetes. The aim of this trial, which is being conducted in the UK, is to investigate the safety, tolerability and bioavailability of NN9924 in healthy volunteers. The trial will enroll approximately 155 individuals and results from the trial are expected in 2011. There are many challenges in developing an oral formulation of GLP-1, in particular obtaining adequate bioavailability. NN9924 addresses some of these key challenges by utilizing Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology to facilitate absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. Genta, Incorporated — Oral Gallium Program In March 2006, we announced that we have entered into an exclusive worldwide licensing agreement with Genta, Incorporated (“Genta”) to develop an oral formulation of a gallium-containing compound. Under the agreement, we will utilize our Eligen® Technology to supply a finished oral dosage form to Genta. Genta will be responsible for toxicology, clinical development, regulatory submissions, and worldwide commercialization. In addition to royalties on net sales of the product, Genta has agreed to fund Emisphere’s development activities and to pay performance milestones related to the filing and approval of regulatory applications. An Investigational New Drug application was filed by Genta on gallium on July 31, 2007. Genta released final results from the Company’s Phase I clinical trial of G4544, a new tablet formulation of a proprietary small molecule intended as a treatment for diseases associated with accelerated bone loss using delivery technology developed by Emisphere Technologies, Inc. Results showed that the drug was very well-tolerated, and that blood levels were achieved in a range that is known to be clinically bioactive. The data were featured in a poster session at the annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (“ASCO”) in 2008. Revenue Recognized From Significant Collaborators 2007 through 2009 (in thousands) Collaborator 2009 2008 2007 Novartis Pharma AG $ — $ — $ 2,666 Roche — — 73 Novo Nordisk AS — 46 — Genta — 118 1,159 Research and Development Costs We have devoted substantially all of our efforts and resources to research and development conducted on our own behalf (self-funded) and in collaborations with corporate partners (partnered). Generally, research and development expenditures are allocated to specific research projects. Due to various uncertainties and risks, including those described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” below, relating to the progress of our product candidates 19 Table of Contents through development stages, clinical trials, regulatory approval, commercialization and market acceptance, it is not possible to accurately predict future spending or time to completion by project or project category. The following table summarizes research and development spending to date by project category: Cumulative Year Ended December 31, Spending 2009 2008 2007 2009(1) (In thousands) Research(2) $ 70 $ 1,143 $ 1,954 $ 51,918 Feasibility projects Self-funded 1,287 1,688 457 11,044 Partnered 38 425 178 4,224 Development projects Oral heparin (self-funded) 148 392 3,834 99,437 Oral insulin (self-funded) 3 53 1,184 21,287 Partnered 2 59 611 12,157 Other(3) 2,498 9,025 12,858 103,956 Total all projects $ 4,046 $ 12,785 $ 21,076 $ 304,023 (1) Cumulative spending from August 1, 1995 through December 31, 2009. (2) Research is classified as resources expended to expand the ability to create new carriers, to ascertain the mechanisms of action of carriers, and to establish computer based modeling capabilities, prototype formulations, animal models, and in vitro testing capabilities. (3) Other includes indirect costs such as rent, utilities, training, standard supplies and management salaries and benefits. Patents and Other Forms of Intellectual Property Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others (see “Risk Factors- Our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights”). We seek patent protection on various aspects of our proprietary chemical and pharmaceutical delivery technologies, including the delivery agent compounds and the structures which encompass Emisphere’s delivery agents, their method of preparation, the combination of our compounds with a pharmaceutical, and use of our compounds with therapeutic molecules to treat various disease states. We have patents and patent applications in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. As of March 25, 2010, we had 121 granted U.S. Patents as well as 109 patent families with pending patent applications. We intend to file additional patent applications when appropriate, and to aggressively prosecute, enforce, and defend our patents and other proprietary technology. We have five trademarks granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office. They include EMISPHERE®, Elaprin® (oral heparin), the Emisphere logo, Emigent® and Eligen®. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and continuing innovation in an effort to develop and maintain our competitive position. Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. Others may independently develop similar product candidates or technologies or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products or processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and other patent applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. 20 Table of Contents Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that the patents issued to or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties. Manufacturing The primary raw materials used in making the delivery agents for our product candidates are readily available in large quantities from multiple sources. In the past we manufactured delivery agents internally using our own facilities on a small scale for research purposes and for early stage clinical supplies. We believed that our manufacturing capabilities complied with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”). Beginning in 2004, we manufactured early stage clinical supplies under GMP conditions for our oral insulin program and heparin multiple arm studies. The FDA inspected our in-house facilities in 2003 and again in 2005. The 2003 inspection resulted in only minor observations on Form 483 which were quickly resolved to FDA’s satisfaction, while the 2005 inspection yielded no Form 483 observations. Currently, EMISPHERE® delivery agents are manufactured by third parties in accordance with GMP regulations. We have identified other commercial manufacturers meeting the FDA’s GMP regulations that have the capability of producing EMISPHERE® delivery agents and we do not rely on any particular manufacturer to supply us with needed quantities. During April 2009 we announced a strategic alliance with AAIPharma intended to expand the application of Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology and AAIPharma’s drug development services. AAIPharma Inc. is a global provider of pharmaceutical product development services that enhance the therapeutic performance of its clients’ drugs. AAIPharma works with many pharmaceutical and biotech companies and currently provides drug product formulation development services to Emisphere. This relationship expands our access to new therapeutic candidates for the Eligen® Technology, which potentially could lead to new products and to new alliance agreements as well. We are also pleased that a global provider of pharmaceutical product development services with the stature of AAI has chosen to combine with Emisphere in a synergistic alliance that will benefit both organizations. This strategic alliance supports AAI’s strategy to offer drug delivery options to its pharmaceutical and biotech customers. Competition Our success depends in part upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of product candidates and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, and with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Our product candidates compete against alternative therapies or alternative delivery systems for each of the medical conditions our product candidates address, independent of the means of delivery. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, experience, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. In many cases we rely on our development partners to develop and market our product candidates. Oral Osteoporosis Competition An injectable form of PTH-1-34 is manufactured and sold by Eli Lilly, as FORTEO®. Unigene Laboratories, Inc. (“Unigene”) has reported that, in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline plce (“GSK”), it is developing an oral form of PTH-1-34. Unigene also reported that it is developing an oral form of sCT. Both candidates are in early stage clinical testing. Novartis currently offers a nasal dosage form of sCT, MIACALCIN®. Other companies are currently developing pulmonary forms of PTH-1-34. Other osteoporosis therapies include estrogen replacement therapy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, bisphosphonates and several new biologics that are under development. 21 Table of Contents Oral Osteoarthritis Competition There has been no cure for osteoarthritis, as cartilage has not been induced to regenerate. Current treatment is with NSAIDs, local injections of glucocorticoid or hyaluronan, and in severe cases, with joint replacement surgery. Future potential treatments might include Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation and cartilage regeneration. If Novartis succeeds in developing its oral treatment for osteoarthritis, we believe it could face competition from existing and potentially future products and treatment regimens under development. Oral Diabetes Competition — Type 2 Diabetes In diabetes, there are a number of unmet needs which amplify the need for further product development in the area. There are three main areas of drug therapy, oral anti-diabetes, Insulin, and Injectable in which companies are attempting to develop innovative products for the treatment of patients. The need for new medicines due to unmet treatment needs recently resulted in two new products; Amylin’s Byetta and Symlin. These products initially performed exceedingly well in the market place. However due to pancreatitis associated with Byetta, the trajectory for the Amylin’s franchise has leveled off as of the third quarter 2008. There are four leading classes for new product development in the area of diabetes. All four seek to take advantage of the potential to improve upon currently available products: • GLP-1 Agonists • Pulmonary Insulin • DPP-IV Inhibitors • PPAR modulators. The objective of our collaboration with Novo Nordisk is to develop an orally available GLP-1 agonist for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes and potentially obesity. A product with the benefits of glucose control, promotion of weight loss, low risk of hypoglycemia, and other benefits is expected to significantly improve therapeutic options and can be expected to perform as well as or better than the existing competition. Oral Vitamin B12 Competition Emisphere’s potential competition in the Vitamin B12 market will depend on the direction the company takes in the development and commercialization of the product. In the event that Emisphere pursues the nutritional supplements market, competition would include a number of companies selling generic Vitamin B12 in a variety of dosage strengths and methods of delivery (e.g., oral, transdermal, nasal, sublingual) many of which have substantial distribution and marketing capabilities that exceed and will likely continue to exceed our own. In addition, our competition is likely to include many sellers, distributors, and others who are in the business of marketing, selling, and promoting multiple vitamins, vitamin-mineral, and specialized vitamin combinations. Many of these competitors are engaged in low cost, high volume operations that could provide substantial market barriers or other obstacles for a higher cost, potentially superior product that has no prior market history. If Emisphere pursues the Vitamin B12 medical food market, the Company would need to successfully demonstrate to physicians, nurse-practitioners and payors that an oral dose would be safe, efficacious, readily accessible and improve compliance. These factors will likely require the Company to engage in a substantial educational and promotional product launch and a marketing outreach initiative, the time, cost, and outcome of which are uncertain. 22 Table of Contents Competition Summary Although we believe that our oral formulations, if successful, will likely compete with well established injectable versions of the same drugs, we believe that we will enjoy a competitive advantage because physicians and patients prefer orally delivered forms of products over injectable forms. Oral forms of products enable improved compliance, and for many programs, the oral form of products enable improved therapeutic regimens. Government Regulation Our operations and product candidates under development are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other governmental authorities in the U.S. and governmental authorities in other countries. The duration of the governmental approval process for marketing new pharmaceutical substances, from the commencement of pre-clinical testing to receipt of governmental approval for marketing a new product, varies with the nature of the product and with the country in which such approval is sought. The approval process for new chemical entities could take eight to ten years or more. The process for reformulations of existing drugs is typically shorter, although a combination of an existing drug with a currently unapproved carrier could require extensive testing. In either case, the procedures required to obtain governmental approval to market new drug products will be costly and time-consuming to us, requiring rigorous testing of the new drug product. Even after such time and effort, regulatory approval may not be obtained for our products. The steps required before we can market or ship a new human pharmaceutical product commercially in the U.S. include pre-clinical testing, the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”), the conduct of clinical trials and the filing with the FDA of either a New Drug Application (“NDA”) for drugs or a Biologic License Application (“BLA”) for biologics. In order to conduct the clinical investigations necessary to obtain regulatory approval of marketing of new drugs in the U.S., we must file an IND with the FDA to permit the shipment and use of the drug for investigational purposes. The IND sets forth, in part, the results of pre-clinical (laboratory and animal) toxicology testing and the applicant’s initial Phase I plans for clinical (human) testing. Unless notified that testing may not begin, the clinical testing may commence 30 days after filing an IND. Under FDA regulations, the clinical testing program required for marketing approval of a new drug typically involves three clinical phases. In Phase I, safety studies are generally conducted on normal, healthy human volunteers to determine the maximum dosages and side effects associated with increasing doses of the substance being tested. Phase II studies are conducted on small groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease to gain preliminary evidence of efficacy, including the range of effective doses, and to determine common short-term side effects and risks associated with the substance being tested. Phase III involves large-scale trials conducted on disease-afflicted patients to provide statistically significant evidence of efficacy and safety and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Frequent reports are required in each phase and if unwarranted hazards to patients are found, the FDA may request modification or discontinuance of clinical testing until further studies have been conducted. Phase IV testing is sometimes conducted, either to meet FDA requirements for additional information as a condition of approval. Our drug product candidates are and will be subjected to each step of this lengthy process from conception to market and many of those candidates are still in the early phases of testing. Once clinical testing has been completed pursuant to an IND, the applicant files an NDA or BLA with the FDA seeking approval for marketing the drug product. The FDA reviews the NDA or BLA to determine whether the drug is safe and effective, and adequately labeled, and whether the applicant can demonstrate proper and consistent manufacture of the drug. The time required for initial FDA action on an NDA or BLA is set on the basis of user fee goals; for most NDA or BLAs the action date is 10 months from receipt of the NDA or BLA at the FDA. The initial FDA action at the end of the review period may be approval or a request for additional information that will be needed for approval depending on the characteristics of the drug and whether the FDA has concerns with the evidence submitted. Once our product candidates reach this stage, we will be subjected to these additional costs of time and money. 23 Table of Contents The FDA has different regulations and processes governing and regulating food products, including vitamin supplements and nutraceuticals. These products are variously referred to as “dietary supplements”, “food additives”, “dietary ingredients”, “medical foods”, and, most broadly, “food”. These foods products do not require the IND, NDA or BLA process outlined above. The facilities of each company involved in the commercial manufacturing, processing, testing, control and labeling of pharmaceutical products must be registered with and approved by the FDA. Continued registration requires compliance with GMP regulations and the FDA conducts periodic establishment inspections to confirm continued compliance with its regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to such matters as laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development work. While we do not currently manufacture any commercial products ourselves, if we did, we would bear additional cost of FDA compliance. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 17 employees, 6 of whom are engaged in scientific research and technical functions and 11 of whom are performing accounting, information technology, engineering, facilities maintenance, legal and regulatory and administrative functions. Of the 6 scientific employees, 4 hold Ph.D. and/or D.V.M. degrees. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Available Information Emisphere files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (the “SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Emisphere, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Emisphere files with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through our internet website (www.emisphere.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we or the reporting person electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into the Annual Report or this Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which is posted on our website at http://ir.emisphere.com/documentdisplay.cfm?DocumentID=4947. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, information provided by us, statements made by our employees or information included in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Report) may contain statements that are not historical facts, so-called “forward-looking statements,” which involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “plans,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “believe” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or 24 Table of Contents state other forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Report. Our actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results may fluctuate because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline. Some of the factors that affect our quarterly and annual results, but which are difficult to control or predict, are: We have a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. If we continue to incur losses or we fail to raise additional capital or receive substantial cash inflows from our partners by June 2010, we may be forced to cease operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $3.8 million in cash and restricted cash, approximately $20.4 million in working capital deficiency, a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $47.9 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $436.7 million. Our operating and net loss for the year ended December 31, 2009 was approximately $14.6 million and $21.2 million, respectively. Since our inception in 1986, we have generated significant losses from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future, and that our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit reports prepared by our independent registered public accounting firms relating to our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to continue operations through approximately June 2010, or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. If we fail to raise additional capital or obtain substantial cash inflows from existing partners prior to June 2010, we will be forced to cease operations. While our plan is to raise capital when needed and/or to pursue product partnering opportunities, we cannot be sure how much we will need to spend in order to develop, market, and manufacture new products and technologies in the future. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. Further, we will not have sufficient resources to develop fully any new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing or to secure funds from new or existing partners. We cannot assure you that financing will be available when needed, or on favorable terms or at all. The current economic environment combined with a number of other factors pose additional challenges to the Company in securing adequate financing under acceptable terms. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Additionally, these conditions may increase the costs to raise capital. Our failure to raise capital when needed would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could force us to reduce or discontinue operations. We may not be able to make the payments we owe to Novartis. On December 1, 2004 we issued a $10 million convertible note (the “Novartis Note”) to Novartis in connection with a research collaboration option relating to the development of PTH-1-34. The Novartis Note, as amended, bears interest at a rate of 3% prior to December 1, 2006, 5% from December 1, 2006 through December 1, 2008, and 7% from that point until maturity. The Novartis Note was originally due December 1, 2009. On November 27, 2009, Novartis agreed to extend the maturity date of the Novartis Note to February 26, 2010. Subsequently, on February 23, 2010, Novartis agreed to further extend the maturity date of the Novartis 25 Table of Contents Note to May 26, 2010. We have the option to pay interest in cash on a current basis or accrue the periodic interest as an addition to the principal amount of the Novartis Note. In the event that interest accrues on the Novartis Note, the accretion to principal will cause future interest payments to rise. Approximately $12.6 million was due as payment of the Novartis Note as of December 31, 2009. The Novartis Note is convertible, at our option, at any time prior to maturity into a number of shares of our common stock equal to the principal and accrued and unpaid interest thereon divided by the conversion price, which conversion price is equal to the average of the highest bid and lowest ask prices of our common stock as quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) averaged over a period of twenty (20) days, consisting of the day on which the conversion price is being determined and the nineteen (19) consecutive business days prior to such day, provided certain conditions contained in the Novartis Note are met. Those conditions include that, at the time of such conversion, no event of default under the Novartis Note has occurred and is continuing and that there is either an effective registration statement in effect covering the resale of the shares issued in connection with such conversion or the shares may be resold by Novartis pursuant to Rule 144 as promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Based on the price per share of our common stock on December 31, 2009, the Novartis Note was convertible into 14,944,980 shares of our common stock, assuming Novartis does not exercise their right to limit the number of shares issued to it upon conversion of the Novartis Note such that the shares of common stock they receive upon conversion do not exceed 19.9% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding. If upon conversion, Novartis decided to exercise their right to limit their ownership to 19.9%, we would still be obligated to pay the remaining balance due, after deducting the value of the stock issued upon conversion, in cash. The Novartis Note contains customary events of default including our failure to timely cure a default in the payment of certain other indebtedness, acceleration of certain indebtedness, we become entitled to terminate the registration of our securities or the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, our common stock is no longer listed, we experience a change of control (including by, among other things, a change in the composition of a majority of our board (other than as approved by the board) in any one-year period, a merger which results in our stockholders holding shares that represent less than a majority of the voting power of the merged entity, and any other acquisition by a third party of shares that represent a majority of the voting power of the company), we sell substantially all of our assets, or we are effectively unable to honor or perform our obligations under the new research collaboration option relating to the development of PTH-1-34. Upon the occurrence of an event of default prior to conversion, any unpaid principal and accrued interest on the Novartis Note would become immediately due and payable. If the Novartis Note is converted into our common stock, Novartis would have the right to require us to repurchase the shares of common stock within six months after an event of default under the Novartis Note, for an aggregate purchase price equal to the principal and interest that was converted, plus interest from the date of conversion, as if no conversion had occurred. We are currently in discussions with Novartis to arrange a settlement to meet our obligations under the Note. We can not be certain that the discussions between the parties will result in an agreement regarding the Novartis Note that will be advantageous for the Company. If the Company is unable to satisfy the terms of the Novartis Note, the Company would be in default and could be forced into bankruptcy or otherwise to liquidate its assets. Any of these events would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of common stock would not be entitled to receive any cash or other property or assets until holders of our debt securities and other creditors have been paid in full. We may not be able to meet the covenants detailed in the Convertible Notes with MHR Institutional Partners IIA LP, which could result in an increase in the interest rate on the Convertible Notes and/or accelerated maturity of the Convertible Notes, which we would not be able to satisfy. On September 26, 2005, we executed a Senior Secured Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with MHR Institutional Partners IIA LP (together with its affiliates, “MHR”). The Loan Agreement, as amended, provides for a seven year, $15 million secured loan from MHR to us at an interest rate of 11% (the “Loan”). Under the Loan Agreement, MHR requested, and on May 16, 2006 we effected, the exchange of the Loan for 26 Table of Contents 11% senior secured convertible notes (the “Convertible Notes”) with substantially the same terms as the Loan agreement, except that the Convertible Notes are convertible, at the sole discretion of MHR or any assignee thereof, into shares of our common stock at a price per share of $3.78. Interest will be payable in the form of additional Convertible Notes rather than in cash and we have the right to call the Convertible Notes after September 26, 2010 if certain conditions are satisfied. The Convertible Notes are secured by a first priority lien in favor of MHR on substantially all of our assets. The Convertible Notes provide for certain events of default including failure to perfect liens in favor of MHR created by the transaction, failure to observe any covenant or agreement, failure to maintain the listing and trading of our common stock, sale of a substantial portion of our assets, or merger with another entity without the prior consent of MHR, or any governmental action renders us unable to honor or perform our obligations under the Convertible Notes or results in a material adverse effect on our operations among other things. If an event of default occurs, the Convertible Notes provide for the immediate repayment of the Notes and certain additional amounts described above and as set forth in the Convertible Notes. At such time, we may not be able to make the required payment, and if we are unable to pay the amount due under the Notes, the resulting default would enable MHR to foreclose on all of our assets. Any of the foregoing events would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our stockholders’ investments in our common stock. We currently have a waiver from MHR for failure to perfect liens on certain intellectual property rights, through April 1, 2011. Our stock was de-listed from NASDAQ. Our common stock was suspended from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market effective at the open of business on June 9, 2009, and NASDAQ delisted the Company’s securities thereafter. The delisting resulted from the Company’s non-compliance with the minimum market value of listed securities requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3)(B). Simultaneously, the Company’s securities began trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”), an electronic quotation service maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, effective with the open of business on June 9, 2009. The Company’s trading symbol has remained EMIS; however, it is our understanding that, for certain stock quote publication websites, investors may be required to key EMIS.OB to obtain quotes. Because our stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced or harder to obtain. In addition, because our common stock was de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity thereof. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock and/or limit an investor’s ability to execute a transaction. The delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market or future declines in our stock price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to stockholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. Our business will suffer if we fail or are delayed in developing and commercializing an improved oral form of Vitamin B12. We are focusing substantial resources on the development of an oral dosage form of Vitamin B12 that will demonstrate improved bioavailability compared with current B12 tablets. During November 2009 the Company launched its first commercially available product, oral Eligen® B12 (100 mcg), which had been specifically developed to help improve Vitamin B12 absorption and bioavailability with a patented formulation, in partnership with Life Extension®. Life Extension® has certain exclusivity in the USA for distribution via the internet and at specialty health food and nutritional retail outlets including The Vitamin Shoppe, GNC and Vitamin World. Oral Eligen® B12 (100mcg) tablets have been available for sale since November 2009. In 27 Table of Contents addition, we are developing a higher dose Eligen® B12 oral formulation as a medical food for B12 deficient patients and for certain generic over-the-counter B12. Our inability or delay in developing or commercializing the B12 product candidate could have a significant material adverse effect on our business. To commercialize this higher dose product candidate, we will be required to complete certain clinical studies, develop a market introduction plan, and possibly obtain financing to support our commercialization efforts, among other things. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in these efforts as these involve activities (or portions of activities) that we have not previously completed. In addition, if we succeed in these activities, Vitamin B12 is available at reasonably low prices both in injections and tablet forms (as well as other forms) through a variety of distributors, sellers, and other sources. We have no current commercial capabilities. Therefore, we would be entering a highly competitive market with an untested, newly-established commercial capability. This outline of risks involved in the development and commercialization of B12 is not exhaustive, but illustrative. For example, it does not include additional competitive, intellectual property, commercial, product liability, and commercial risks involved in a launch of the B12 product candidate outside the U.S. or certain of such risks in the U.S. We are highly dependent upon collaborative partners to develop and commercialize compounds using our delivery agents. A key part of our strategy is to form collaborations with pharmaceutical companies that will assist us in developing, testing, obtaining government approval for and commercializing oral forms of therapeutic macromolecules using the Eligen® Technology. We have a collaborative agreement for candidates in clinical development with Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genta. We negotiate specific ownership rights with respect to the intellectual property developed as a result of the collaboration with each partner. While ownership rights vary from program to program, in general we retain ownership rights to developments relating to our carrier and the collaborator retains rights related to the drug product developed. Despite our existing agreements, we cannot make any assurances that: • we will be able to enter into additional collaborative arrangements to develop products utilizing our drug delivery technology; • any existing or future collaborative arrangements will be sustainable or successful; • the product candidates in collaborative arrangements will be further developed by partners in a timely fashion; • any collaborative partner will not infringe upon our intellectual property position in violation of the terms of the collaboration contract; or • milestones in collaborative agreements will be met and milestone payments will be received. If we are unable to obtain development assistance and funds from other pharmaceutical companies to fund a portion of our product development costs and to commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to issue equity to allow us to raise sufficient capital to fund clinical development of our product candidates. Lack of funding would cause us to delay, curtail, or stop clinical development of one or more of our projects. The determination of the specific project to curtail would depend upon the relative future economic value to us of each program. Our collaborative partners control the clinical development of the drug candidates and may terminate their efforts at will. Novartis controls the clinical development of oral salmon calcitonin, PTH, and rhGH. Novo Nordisk controls the clinical development of oral GLP-1 analogs. Genta controls the clinical development of oral gallium. Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genta control the decision-making for the design and timing of their clinical studies. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, the agreements with Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genta provide that they may terminate their programs at will for any reason and without any financial penalty or requirement to fund any further clinical studies. We cannot make any assurance that Novartis, Novo Nordisk or Genta will continue to advance the clinical development of the drug candidates subject to collaboration. Our collaborative partners are free to develop competing products. Aside from provisions preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property by our collaborative partners, there is nothing in our collaborative agreements that prevent our partners from developing competing products. If one of our partners were to develop a competing product, our collaboration could be substantially jeopardized. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we cannot be certain that any will be suitable for commercial purposes. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market, and distribute our products under development, or secure a partner to provide financial and other assistance with these steps. The time necessary to achieve these goals for any individual pharmaceutical product is long and can be uncertain. Before we or a potential partner can sell any of the pharmaceutical products currently under development, pre-clinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for human use for each targeted indication. We have never successfully commercialized a drug or a nonprescription candidate and we cannot be certain that we or our current or future partners will be able to begin, or continue, planned clinical trials for our product candidates, or if we are able, that the product candidates will prove to be safe and will produce their intended effects. Even if safe and effective, the size of the solid dosage form, taste, and frequency of dosage may impede their acceptance by patients. A number of companies in the drug delivery, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after showing promising results in earlier studies or trials. Only a small number of research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Favorable results in any pre-clinical study or early clinical trial do not imply that favorable results will ultimately be obtained in future clinical trials. We cannot make any assurance that results of limited animal and human studies are indicative of results that would be achieved in future animal studies or human clinical studies, all or some of which will be required in order to have our product candidates obtain regulatory approval. Similarly, we cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be approved by the FDA. Even if clinical trials or other studies demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease or condition and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our future business success depends heavily upon regulatory approvals, which can be difficult and expensive to obtain. Our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our prescription drug and biologic product candidates, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. The process of obtaining required approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities often takes many years, is expensive, and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates. We cannot assure you that we, either independently or in collaboration with others, will meet the applicable regulatory criteria in order to receive the required approvals for manufacturing and marketing. Delays in obtaining U.S. or foreign approvals for our self-developed projects could result in substantial additional costs to us, and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. Additionally, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals encountered by others with whom we collaborate also could adversely affect our business and 29 Table of Contents prospects. Even if regulatory approval of a product is obtained, the approval may place limitations on the intended uses of the product, and may restrict the way in which we or our partner may market the product. The regulatory approval process for our prescription drug product candidates presents several risks to us: • In general, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval • Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy, and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first • Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations or guidelines • New guidelines can have an effect on the regulatory decisions made in previous years • The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions, and contraindications that could materially affect the profitability of the drug • Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market • Regulatory authorities and agencies may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products • Once a product receives marketing approval, the FDA may not permit us to market that product for broader or different applications, or may not grant us clearance with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing clearances in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products Additionally, we face the risk that our competitors may gain FDA approval for a product before us. Having a competitor reach the market before us would impede the future commercial success for our competing product because we believe that the FDA uses heightened standards of approval for products once approval has been granted to a competing product in a particular product area. We believe that this standard generally limits new approvals to only those products that meet or exceed the standards set by the previously approved product. The regulatory approval process for nonprescription product candidates will likely vary by the nature of therapeutic molecule being delivered, Our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights. Although we have patents for some of our product candidates and have applied for additional patents, there can be no assurance that patents applied for will be granted, that patents granted to or acquired by us now or in the future will be valid and enforceable and provide us with meaningful protection from competition, or that we will possess the financial resources necessary to enforce any of our patents. Also, we cannot be certain that any products that we (or a licensee) develop will not infringe upon any patent or other intellectual property right of a third party. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. We maintain a policy of requiring employees, scientific advisors, consultants, and collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of 30 Table of Contents a relationship with us. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Part of our strategy involves collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development of new formulations of drugs developed by others and, ultimately, the receipt of royalties on sales of the new formulations of those drugs. These drugs are generally the property of the pharmaceutical companies and may be the subject of patents or patent applications and other rights of protection owned by the pharmaceutical companies. To the extent those patents or other forms of rights expire, become invalid or otherwise ineffective, or to the extent those drugs are covered by patents or other forms of protection owned by third parties, sales of those drugs by the collaborating pharmaceutical company may be restricted, limited, enjoined, or may cease. Accordingly, the potential for royalty revenues to us may be adversely affected. We may be at risk of having to obtain a license from third parties making proprietary improvements to our technology. There is a possibility that third parties may make improvements or innovations to our technology in a more expeditious manner than we do. Although we are not aware of any such circumstance related to our product portfolio, should such circumstances arise, we may need to obtain a license from such third party to obtain the benefit of the improvement or innovation. Royalty’s payable under such a license would reduce our share of total revenue. Such a license may not be available to us at all or on commercially reasonable terms. Although we currently do not know of any circumstances related to our product portfolio which would lead us to believe that a third party has developed any improvements or innovation with respect to our technology, we cannot assure you that such circumstances will not arise in the future. We cannot reasonably determine the cost to us of the effect of being unable to obtain any such license. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture and test our products. Currently, we have no manufacturing facilities for production of our carriers or any therapeutic compounds under consideration as products. We have no facilities for clinical testing. The success of our self-developed programs is dependent upon securing manufacturing capabilities and contracting with clinical service and other service providers. The availability of manufacturers is limited by both the capacity of such manufacturers and their regulatory compliance. Among the conditions for NDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s current GMP (GMP are regulations established by the FDA that govern the manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs intended for human use). In complying with GMP, manufacturers must devote extensive time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control and quality assurance to maintain full technical compliance. Manufacturing facilities and company records are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to ensure compliance. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with these requirements, regulatory enforcement action may be taken by the FDA, which may include seeking an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and recall of products previously shipped from the facility. Such actions could severely delay our ability to obtain product from that particular source. The success of our clinical trials and our partnerships is dependent on the proposed or current partner’s capacity and ability to adequately manufacture drug products to meet the proposed demand of each respective market. Any significant delay in obtaining a supply source (which could result from, for example, an FDA determination that such manufacturer does not comply with current GMP) could harm our potential for success. Additionally, if a current manufacturer were to lose its ability to meet our supply demands during a clinical trial, the trial may be delayed or may even need to be abandoned. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or future products. We have product liability insurance with a policy limit of $5.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. The testing, manufacture, and marketing of products for humans utilizing our drug delivery technology may expose us to potential product liability and other claims. These may be claims directly by 31 Table of Contents consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. We seek to structure development programs with pharmaceutical companies that would complete the development, manufacturing and marketing of the finished product in a manner that would protect us from such liability, but the indemnity undertakings for product liability claims that we secure from the pharmaceutical companies may prove to be insufficient. We are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations for which we incur costs to comply. We use some hazardous materials in our research and development activities and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing the use of such materials. For example, our operations involve the controlled use of chemicals, biologicals and radioactive materials and we bear the costs of complying with the various regulations governing the use of such materials. Costs of compliance have not been material to date. While we believe we are currently in compliance with the federal, state, and local laws governing the use of such materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination will not occur. Should we be held liable or face regulatory actions regarding an accident involving personal injury or an environmental release, we potentially could incur costs in excess of our resources or insurance coverage, although, to date, we have not had to deal with any such actions. During each of 2009, 2008, and 2007, we incurred costs of approximately $0.1 million, $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively, in our compliance with environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. We face rapid technological change and intense competition. Our success depends, in part, upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists, and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, as well as with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Many of these competitors have greater research and development capabilities, experience, and marketing, financial, and managerial resources than we have, and, therefore, represent significant competition. Our products, when developed and marketed, may compete with existing parenteral or other versions of the same drug, some of which are well established in the marketplace and manufactured by formidable competitors, as well as other existing drugs. For example, our salmon calcitonin product candidate, if developed and marketed, would compete with a wide array of existing osteoporosis therapies, including a nasal dosage form of salmon calcitonin, estrogen replacement therapy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, bisphosphonates, and other compounds in development. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining government approval for products before we do. Developments by others may render our product candidates, or the therapeutic macromolecules used in combination with our product candidates, noncompetitive or obsolete. At least one competitor has notified the FDA that it is developing a competing formulation of salmon calcitonin. If our products are marketed, we cannot assure you that they will be preferred to existing drugs or that they will be preferred to or available before other products in development. If a competitor announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or an approval by a regulatory agency of the marketing of a competitive product, such announcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or future prospects resulting from reduced sales of future products that we may wish to bring to market or from an adverse impact on the price of our common stock or our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. We are dependent on our executive officers. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael V. Novinski, joined the Company in May 2007. We could be significantly disadvantaged if Mr. Novinski were to 32 Table of Contents leave Emisphere. The loss of other officers could have an adverse effect as well, given their specific knowledge related to our proprietary technology and personal relationships with our pharmaceutical company partners. If we are not able to retain our executive officers, our business may suffer. None of our key officers have announced any intention to leave Emisphere. We do not maintain “key-man” life insurance policies for any of our executive officers. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. Additionally, because of the knowledge and experience of our scientific personnel and their specific knowledge with respect to our drug carriers the continued development of our product candidates could be adversely affected by the loss of any significant number of such personnel. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan may dissuade potential acquirers, prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Of these 1,000,000 shares, 200,000 are currently designated Series A Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (“A Preferred Stock”) in connection with our stockholder rights plan, and the remaining 800,000 shares remain available for future issuance. Rights of holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We also have a stockholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” in which Preferred Stock Purchase Rights (the “Rights”) have been granted at the rate of one one-hundredth of a share of A Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $80 for each share of our common stock. The Rights are not exercisable or transferable apart from the common stock, until the earlier of (i) ten days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons have acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or such later date, as defined) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person, or group, of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. If we enter into consolidation, merger, or other business combinations, as defined, each Right would entitle the holder upon exercise to receive, in lieu of shares of A Preferred Stock, a number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value of two times the exercise price of the Right, as defined. By potentially diluting the ownership of the acquiring company, our rights plan may dissuade prospective acquirors of our company. MHR is specifically excluded from the provisions of the plan. The A Preferred Stockholders will be entitled to a preferential cumulative quarterly dividend of the greater of $1.00 per share or 100 times the per-share dividend declared on our stock and are also entitled to a liquidation preference, thereby hindering an acquirer’s ability to freely pay dividends or to liquidate the company following an acquisition. Each A Preferred Stock share will have 100 votes and will vote together with the common shares, effectively preventing an acquirer from removing existing management. The Rights contain anti-dilutive provisions and are redeemable at our option, subject to certain defined restrictions for $.01 per Right. The Rights expire on April 7, 2016. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law and financing agreements may prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and members of our Board of Directors and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. In connection with the MHR financing transaction, and after approval by our Board of Directors, Dr. Mark H. Rachesky was appointed to the Board of Directors by MHR (the “MHR Nominee”) and Dr. Michael Weiser was appointed to the Board of Directors by both the majority of our Board of Directors and MHR (the “Mutual Director”), as contemplated by our bylaws. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the MHR Nominee and the Mutual Director may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least 85% of the shares 33 Table of Contents of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at an election of directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual designated by MHR unless the MHR Nominee has been removed for cause, in which case the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual approved by both a majority of our Board of Directors and MHR. Furthermore, the amendments to the by-laws and the certificate of incorporation provide that the rights granted to MHR by these amendments may not be amended or repealed without the unanimous vote or unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 85% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the election of directors. The amendments to the by-laws and the certificate of incorporation will remain in effect as long as MHR holds at least 2% of the shares of fully diluted Common Stock. The amendments to the by-laws and the certificate of incorporation will have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Additional provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. These include provisions that classify our Board of Directors, limit the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, call special meetings, remove a director for cause, amend the by-laws or approve a merger with another company. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market prices for securities of drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile. Factors that could adversely affect our stock price include: • fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of partnerships or technological collaborations; • innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulation; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others; • the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical studies or trials by us, our partners or our competitors; • litigation; • general stock market and economic conditions; • number of shares available for trading (float); and • inclusion in or dropping from stock indexes. As of December 31, 2009, our 52-week high and low closing market price for our common stock was $1.38 and $0.44, respectively. 34 Table of Contents Future sales of common stock or warrants, or the prospect of future sales, may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock or warrants, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we have 7,000,000 shares of common stock registered on a shelf registration for future sale. Additionally, as of December 31, 2009, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 1,814,982 shares of our common stock that are currently exercisable, and additional outstanding options to purchase up to 919,754 shares of common stock that are exercisable over the next several years. As of December 31, 2009, the Novartis Note was convertible into 14,944,980 shares of common stock and the MHR Convertible Notes were convertible into 5,983,146 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 9,934,253 shares of our stock. The holders of these options have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock with a resulting dilution in the interests of the other. The existence of these options may adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain additional financing. The weighted average exercise price of issued and outstanding options is $6.29 and the weighted average exercise price of warrants is $2.33 which compares to the $1.06 market price at closing on December 31, 2009. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 