ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements that we make in this Report and elsewhere (including oral statements) from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Report. If we fail to raise additional capital or receive substantial cash inflows from our partners by May of 2006, we will be forced to cease operations As of December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of $9.2 million. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will not enable us to continue operations past mid-May of 2006, or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. These circumstances may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. If we fail to raise additional capital or obtain substantial cash inflows from existing partners prior to May 2006, we will be forced to cease operations. We are in discussions with investment bankers concerning our financing options. We cannot assure you that financing will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We have limited capital resources and operations to date have been funded with the proceeds from collaborative research agreements, public and private equity and debt financings and income earned on investments. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit report prepared by our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 17 Since our inception in 1986, we have generated significant losses from operations and we anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was approximately $351 million. Our net loss was $18.1 million, $37.5 million and $44.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The significant decrease in net loss is a result of the $14.7 million gain on the extinguishment of the Elan note payable. Our cash outlays from operations and capital expenditures were $30.4 million for 2005. Our stockholders’ equity decreased from $22.8 million as of December 31, 2003 to a stockholders’ deficit of $11.3 million and $14.9 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Even if we obtain additional financing, our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. We cannot be sure how much we will need to spend in order to develop, market and manufacture new products and technologies in the future. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. Further, we will not have sufficient resources to develop fully any new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing on acceptable terms or secure funds from new or existing partners. Our failure to raise capital when needed would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could force us to reduce or discontinue our operations at some time in the future, even if we obtain financing in the near term. We may not be able to make the payments we owe to MHR, which could result in a foreclosure on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. On September 26, 2005, we executed a Senior Secured Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with MHR. The Loan Agreement was amended on November 11, 2005 to clarify certain terms. The Loan Agreement provides for a seven year, $15 million secured loan from MHR to us at an interest rate of 11% (the “Loan”). The Loan is secured by a first priority lien in favor of MHR on substantially all of our assets. The proceeds from the Loan were disbursed to a restricted account and our right to have such funds disbursed to an operating account is conditioned upon the requested amounts for any period not being in excess of 103% of amounts in our budget for such period (then in effect under the terms of the Loan Agreement), and provided that we certify to MHR that no event of default has occurred under the Loan Agreement (or the Convertible Note described below, as applicable), no material adverse change has occurred and our representations and warranties under the Loan Agreement continue to be true and correct. The Loan Agreement requires us to hold a special stockholder meeting for the purpose of obtaining stockholder approval of (i) the exchange of the Loan for an 11% senior secured convertible note (the “Convertible Note”) with substantially the same terms as the Loan Agreement, except that the Convertible Note will be convertible, at the sole discretion of MHR or any assignee thereof, into shares of our common stock at a price per share of $3.78, interest will be payable in kind rather than in cash and we will have the right to call the Convertible Note after September 26, 2010 if certain conditions are satisfied and (ii) the amendment and restatement of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation. On December 8, 2005, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a definitive proxy statement relating to this special meeting of our stockholders. On January 17, 2006, the special meeting of stockholders was held and both proposals were approved by our stockholders. The Loan Agreement provides that an event of default shall be deemed to have occurred if we default on the payment of any obligation or indebtedness when due, including any payment of interest, any of the liens in favor of MHR created by the transaction fails to constitute a perfected lien, we suffer a bankruptcy or similar insolvency event or proceeding, we materially breach a representation or warranty or fail to observe any covenant or agreement, we suffer and do not discharge in a timely manner a final judgment for the payment of a sum in excess of a certain materiality threshold, our common stock has been delisted or trading has been suspended, we sell a substantial portion of our assets, we merge with another entity without the prior consent of MHR, or any governmental action renders us unable to honor or perform our obligations under the Loan Agreement or results in a material adverse effect on our operations. If an event of default occurs, the Loan Agreement provides for the immediate repayment of the Loan and certain additional amounts described above and as set forth in the Loan Agreement. At such time, we may not be able to make the required payment, and if we are unable to pay the amount due under the Loan, the resulting default would enable MHR to foreclose on all of our assets. Any of the foregoing events would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our stockholders’ investments in our common stock. We may not be able to make the payments we owe to Novartis. On December 1, 2004 we issued a $10 million convertible note (the “Novartis Note”) to Novartis in connection with a new research collaboration option relating to the development of PTH 1-34. The Novartis Note bears interest at a rate of 3% prior to December 1, 2006, 5% from December 1, 2006 through December 1, 2008, and 7% from that point until maturity on December 1, 2009. We have the option to pay interest in cash on a current basis or accrue the periodic interest as an addition to the principal amount of the Novartis Note. In the event that interest accrues on the Novartis Note, the accretion to principal will cause future interest payments to rise. We may convert the Novartis Note at any time prior to maturity into a number of shares of our common stock equal to the principal and accrued and unpaid interest to be converted divided by the then market price of our common stock, provided certain conditions are met, including that the number of shares issued to Novartis, when issued, does not exceed 18 19.9% of the total shares of Company common stock outstanding, that at the time of such conversion no event of default under the Note has occurred and is continuing, and that there is either an effective shelf registration statement in effect covering the resale of the shares issued in connection with such conversion or the shares may be resold by Novartis pursuant to SEC Rule 144(k). These conditions may not be met and we may be unable to convert the Novartis Note, in which case we would be required to continue to make interest payments and the rates of such interest payments will increase over time. Under the Novartis Note, an event of default shall be deemed to have occurred if we default on the payment of the principal amount of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, the Novartis Note upon maturity, we suffer a bankruptcy or similar insolvency event or proceeding, we materially breach a representation or warranty, we fail to timely cure a default in the payment of any other indebtedness in excess of a certain material threshold, or there occurs an acceleration of indebtedness in excess of that threshold, we suffer and do not discharge in a timely manner a final judgment for the payment of a sum in excess of a certain material threshold, we become entitled to terminate the registration of our securities or the filing of reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, our common stock will be delisted from Nasdaq, we experience a change of control (including by, among other things, a change in the composition of a majority of our board (other than as approved by the board) in any one-year period, a merger which results in our stockholders holding shares that represent less than a majority of the voting power of the merged entity, and any other acquisition by a third party of shares that represent a majority of the voting power of the company), we sell substantially all of our assets, or we are effectively unable to honor or perform our obligations under the new research collaboration option relating to the development of PTH 1-34. Upon the occurrence of any such event of default prior to conversion, any unpaid principal and accrued interest on the Novartis Note would become immediately due and payable. At such time, we may not be able to make the required payment, and if we are unable to pay the amount due under the Novartis Note, the resulting default would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our stockholders’ investments in our common stock. If the Novartis Note is converted into our common stock, Novartis would have the right to require us to repurchase the shares of common stock within six months after an event of default under the Novartis Note, for an aggregate purchase price equal to the principal and interest that was converted, plus interest from the date of conversion, as if no conversion had occurred. If we are unable to make the repurchase, the resulting default would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our stockholders’ investments in our common stock. We are highly dependent on the clinical success of our oral heparin and insulin product candidates. Oral heparin and oral insulin are our two lead programs and are among our most advanced programs. To date, we have invested $93 million and $18 million, in oral heparin and oral insulin, respectively. We believe that, based on market size, these two products, if approved, could represent our largest sources of revenue. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for either of these products, either solely through our own efforts or through collaborations with one or more major pharmaceutical companies, our ability to fund future operations from operating revenue or issuance of additional equity is likely to be adversely affected. We are not dependent on successful culmination of clinical trials or regulatory approval of any particular one of our other product candidate programs because our investment in each such program and reward upon successful completion of each such program is substantially less signi ficant to our long-term viability. Oral Heparin Heparin delivery is a highly competitive area. Other companies currently are developing spray (buccal) or alternate forms of heparin and other anti-thrombotics. We are developing solid dosage forms of oral heparin and have commenced Phase III testing for the SNAC/heparin molecule combination. We previously developed a liquid form of oral heparin and in 2000 conducted a Phase III clinical trial that was completed in early 2002. The trial did not meet its endpoint of superiority to LOVENOX®, a leading low molecular weight heparin. We believe that the trial failed to meet its endpoint of superiority possibly due in part to the poor taste of the liquid formulation. We subsequently restructured our operations, which included the discontinuation of our liquid oral heparin program and related initiatives, and a reduction of associated infrastructure. The resulting restructuring charge to earnings in 2002 was approximately $1.5 million. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” in connection with the restructuring, we performed an evaluation of certain intangible and fixed assets to determine if their carrying amount exceeded their fair value. In 2002, we recorded an impairment charge of $4.5 million. In 2003, we recorded an additional impairment charge of $5.4 million. In 2004 and 2005, we have not recorded any impairment charges related to developments in our oral heparin program. We cannot assure you that competitive heparin products will not have an adverse effect on our heparin product development efforts or that future clinical trials related to our solid form of oral heparin will meet targeted endpoints. If future clinical trials related to oral heparin fail to meet the targeted endpoints, we likely would discontinue our oral heparin program and write off any remaining oral heparin investment. 19 In 1996, we formed a joint venture with Elan to develop oral forms of heparin. In July 1999, we reacquired all product, marketing and technology rights for our heparin products from Elan. In accordance with the termination agreement with Elan, we will be required to pay Elan royalties on our sales of oral heparin, subject to an annual cap of $10 million. Oral Insulin Insulin delivery is a highly competitive area. Other companies currently are developing and/or have received regulatory approval for buccal or aerosol (pulmonary) forms of insulin (e.g., Pfizer/Nektar’s EXUBERA®). Our oral insulin product candidate has demonstrated favorable data in early patient studies in both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetics. However, we cannot assure you that future clinical trials related to our oral insulin will meet targeted endpoints, with the result that we may fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approval for sale of oral insulin, either alone or in collaboration with a major pharmaceutical company. If such circumstances were to occur, we likely would discontinue our oral insulin program and write off any remaining oral insulin investment. We are highly dependent upon collaborative partners to develop and commercialize compounds using our delivery agents. A key part of our strategy is to form collaborations with pharmaceutical companies that will assist us in developing, testing, obtaining government approval for and commercializing oral forms of therapeutic macromolecules using the eligen® technology. We have collaborative agreements for candidates in clinical development with Novartis and Roche. We negotiate specific ownership rights with respect to the intellectual property developed as a result of the collaboration with each partner. While ownership rights vary from program to program, in general we retain ownership rights to developments relating to our carrier and the collaborator retains rights related to the drug product developed. Despite our existing agreements, we cannot assure you that: • we will be able to enter into additional collaborative arrangements to develop products utilizing our drug delivery technology; • any existing or future collaborative arrangements will be sustainable or successful; • the product candidates in collaborative arrangements will be further developed by partners in a timely fashion; • any collaborative partner will not infringe upon our intellectual property position in violation of the terms of the collaboration contract; or • milestones in collaborative agreements will be met and milestone payments will be received. If we are unable to obtain development assistance and funds from other pharmaceutical companies to fund a portion of our product development costs and to commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to issue equity upon favorable terms to allow us to raise sufficient capital to fund clinical development of our product candidates. Lack of funding would cause us to delay, scale back or curtail clinical development of one or more of our projects. The determination of the specific project to curtail would depend upon the relative future economic value to us of each program. Our collaborative partners control the clinical development of the drug candidates and may terminate their efforts at will. Novartis controls the clinical development of oral salmon calcitonin and oral rhGH. Novartis also has an option to control the clinical development of oral PTH. Roche controls the clinical development of the small molecule compound for which they have licensed our technology. Although we influence the clinical program through participation on a Steering Committee for each product, Novartis and Roche control the decision-making for the design and timing of their respective clinical studies. As noted below, we are in litigation and have terminated our agreements with Lilly. Moreover, the agreements with Novartis and Roche provide that each may terminate its programs at will for any reason and without any financial penalty or requirement to fund any further clinical studies. We cannot assure you that Novartis or Roche will continue to advance the clinical development of the drug candidates subject to collaboration. Our collaborative partners are free to develop competing products. Aside from provisions preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property by our collaborative partners, there is nothing in our collaborative agreements that prevents our partners from developing competing products. If one of our partners were to develop a competing product, our collaboration could be substantially jeopardized. 20 We are currently in litigation with one of our previous collaborative partners, and an adverse determination of our patent infringement claims in that case could limit our future ability to realize on the potential value of our PTH 1-34 assets. There is currently pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana, Indianapolis Division, a lawsuit with Eli Lilly and Company. The suit results from a notice that we delivered to Lilly declaring that Lilly was in material breach of certain research and collaboration agreements entered into with Lilly with respect to the development of oral formulations of PTH 1-34. Following receipt of the notice, Lilly filed a complaint seeking a declaratory judgment declaring that Lilly is not in breach of its agreements with us concerning oral formulations of PTH 1-34, and an order preliminarily and permanently enjoining us from terminating those agreements. On February 12, 2004, we served Lilly with an amended counterclaim, alleging that Lilly filed certain patent applications relating to the use of our proprietary technology in combination with another drug, in violation of our agreements with Lilly, and that the activities disclosed in such applications infringe upon our patents. We are also alleging that Lilly has breached the agreements by failing to make a milestone payment of $3 million, as required upon the completion of oral PTH 1-34 product Phase I studies. Lilly has denied that the $3 million currently is due on the basis that the requisite Phase I studies have not been completed and that the patent applications that it filed relating to the use of our proprietary technology in combination with another drug is not in violation of our agreements with Lilly, and that the activities disclosed in such applications do not infringe upon our patents. On February 13, 2004, the court entered a case management plan and the parties commenced the exchange of discovery materials in March 2004. By notice dated August 23, 2004, we notified Lilly that in light of Lilly’s ongoing, repeated and uncured violations of its PTH 1-34 license agreement, both its agreements with us were terminated. Thereafter, Lilly amended its complaint to seek a declaration that we are not entitled to terminate those agreements and also to seek declarations that Lilly has not infringed our patents. The case went to trial on January 31, 2005. The trial lasted 4 days and closing arguments were heard on February 9, 2005. On January 6, 2006, the district court ruled in our favor, finding that Lilly had breached the agreements on all counts tried and that our termination was proper. On January 20, 2006, Lilly filed a motion seeking to amend the district court’s decision. We opposed that motion and it is awaiting decision. There are still several issues pending in the case, including the question of damages we suffered as a result of Lilly’s breaches and our previously asserted claims that Lilly’s conduct also infringed our patents. Although the district court’s January 6, 2006 ruling was interlocutory and not immediately appealable by Lilly, it is possible that at some point Lilly will be permitted to appeal that decision. A reversal of the decision in this litigation concerning our claim and subsequent court decision that Lilly breached our agreements could limit our future ability to realize the potential value of our oral PTH 1-34 assets. Although the costs of litigating this matter to its ultimate resolution may be material, we anticipate that near-term costs will be minimal and we do not anticipate any significant impact on our ability to develop our product candidates. Through December 31, 2005, we have incurred approximately $2.3 million in expenses relating to this litigation. Although we are not currently involved in litigation with any of our other collaborative partners and have no reason to believe that such litigation will arise, it is possible that in the future this may not be the case. Were we to become involved in litigation with another of our collaborative partners, we would bear the additional expense of the litigation and we would likely suffer an adverse impact on both the program covered by the collaborative agreement and our relationship with the particular collaborative partner. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we cannot be certain that any will be suitable for commercial purposes. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our products under development, or secure a partner to provide financial and other assistance with these steps. The time necessary to achieve these goals for any individual product is long and uncertain. Before we or a potential partner can sell any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials that each product is safe and effective for human use for each targeted indication. We have never successfully commercialized a drug candidate and we cannot be certain that we or our current or future partners will be able to begin, or continue, planned clinical trials for our product candidates, or if we are able, that the product candidates will prove to be safe and will produce their intended effects. Even if safe and effective, the size of the solid dosage form, taste and frequency of dosage may impede their acceptance by patients. A number of companies in the drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after showing promising results in earlier studies or trials. We cannot assure you that favorable results in any preclinical study or early clinical trial will mean that favorable results will ultimately be obtained in future clinical trials. Nor can we assure you that results of limited animal and human studies are indicative of results that would be achieved in future animal studies or human clinical studies, all or some of which will be required in order to have our product candidates obtain regulatory approval. Similarly, we cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be approved by the FDA. 21 Our future business success depends heavily upon regulatory approvals, which can be difficult to obtain for a variety of reasons, including cost. Our preclinical studies and clinical trials, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by various governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining required approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities often takes many years, is expensive and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates. We cannot assure you that we, either independently or in collaboration with others, will meet the applicable regulatory criteria in order to receive the required approvals for manufacturing and marketing. Delays in obtaining United States or foreign approvals for our self-developed projects could result in substantial additional costs to us, and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. Additionally, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals encountered by others with whom we collaborate also could adversely affect our business and prospects. Even if regulatory approval of a product is obtained, the approval may place limitations on the intended uses of the product, and may restrict the way in which we or our partner may market the product. The regulatory approval process presents several risks to us: • In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. • Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first. • Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy, or the adoption of new regulations or legislation. • The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contraindications that could materially affect the profitability of the drug. • Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and on-going review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market. • Regulatory authorities and agencies may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products. • Once a product receives marketing approval, the FDA may not permit us to market that product for broader or different applications, or may not grant us clearance with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing clearances in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. Additionally, we face the risk that our competitors may gain FDA approval for a product before us. Having a competitor reach the market before us would impede the future commercial success for our competing product because we believe that the FDA uses heightened standards of approval for products once approval has been granted to a competing product in a particular product area. We believe that this standard generally limits new approvals to only those products that meet or exceed the standards set by the previously approved product. Our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights. Although we have patents for some of our product candidates and have applied for additional patents, there can be no assurance that patents applied for will be granted, that patents granted to or acquired by us now or in the future will be valid and enforceable and provide us with meaningful protection from competition or that we will possess the financial resources necessary to enforce any of our patents. Also, we cannot be certain that any products that we (or a licensee) develop will not infringe upon any patent or other intellectual property right of a third party. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. We maintain a policy of requiring employees, scientific advisors, consultants and collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of a relationship with us. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. 22 Part of our strategy involves collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development of new formulations of drugs developed by others and, ultimately, the receipt of royalties on sales of the new formulations of those drugs. These drugs are generally the property of the pharmaceutical companies and may be the subject of patents or patent applications and other rights of protection owned by the pharmaceutical companies. To the extent those patents or other forms of rights expire, become invalid or otherwise ineffective, or to the extent those drugs are covered by patents or other forms of protection owned by third parties, sales of those drugs by the collaborating pharmaceutical company may be restricted, limited, enjoined, or may cease. Accordingly, the potential for royalty revenues to us may be adversely affected. We may be at risk of having to obtain a license from third parties making proprietary improvements to our technology. There is a possibility that third parties may make improvements or innovations to our technology in a more expeditious manner than we do. Although we are not aware of any such circumstance related to our product portfolio, should such circumstances arise, we may need to obtain a license from such third party to obtain the benefit of the improvement or innovation. Royalties payable under such a license would reduce our share of total revenue. Such a license may not be available to us at all or on commercially reasonable terms. Although we currently do not know of any circumstances related to our product portfolio which would lead us to believe that a third party has developed any improvements or innovation with respect to our technology, we cannot assure you that such circumstances will not arise in the future. We cannot reasonably determine the cost to us of the effect of being unable to obtain any such license. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture and, in some cases, test our products. We have a facility to manufacture a limited quantity of clinical supplies containing EMISPHERE® delivery agents. Currently, we have no manufacturing facilities for production of any therapeutic compounds under consideration as products. We have no facilities for clinical testing. The success of our self-developed programs is dependent upon securing manufacturing capabilities and contracting with clinical service providers. The availability of manufacturers is limited by both the capacity of such manufacturers and their regulatory compliance. Among the conditions for NDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s current GMP (GMP are regulations established by the FDA that govern the manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs intended for human use). In complying with GMP, manufacturers must devote extensive time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control and quality assurance to maintain full technical compliance. Manufacturing facilities and company records are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to ensure compliance. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with these requirements, regulatory enforcement action may be taken by the FDA, which may include seeking an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and recall of products previously shipped from the facility. Such actions could severely delay our ability to obtain product from that particular source. The success of our clinical trials and our partnerships is dependent on the proposed or current partner’s capacity and ability to adequately manufacture drug products to meet the proposed demand of each respective market. Any significant delay in obtaining a supply source (which could result from, for example, an FDA determination that such manufacturer does not comply with current GMP) could harm our potential for success. Additionally, if a current manufacturer were to lose its ability to meet our supply demands during a clinical trial, the trial may be delayed or may even need to be abandoned. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or future products. We have product liability insurance with a policy limit of $5 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. The testing, manufacture and marketing of products for humans utilizing our drug delivery technology may expose us to potential product liability and other claims. These may be claims directly by consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. We seek to structure development programs with pharmaceutical companies that would complete the development, manufacturing and marketing of the finished product in a manner that would protect us from such liability, but the indemnity undertakings for product liability claims that we secure from the pharmaceutical companies may prove to be insufficient. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations for which we incur costs to comply. We use some hazardous materials in our research and development activities and are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing the use of such materials. For example, our operations involve the controlled use of 23 chemicals, biologicals and radioactive materials and we bear the costs of complying with the various regulations governing the use of such materials. Costs of compliance have not been material to date. While we believe we are currently in compliance with the federal, state and local laws governing the use of such materials, we cannot be certain that accidental injury or contamination will not occur. Should we be held liable or face regulatory actions regarding an accident involving personal injury or an environmental release, we potentially could incur costs in excess of our resources or insurance coverage, although, to date, we have not had to deal with any such actions. During each of 2003, 2004 and 2005, we incurred costs of approximately $200 thousand in our compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We face rapid technological change and intense competition. Our success depends, in part, upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, as well as with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Many of these competitors have greater research and development capabilities, experience, and marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have, and, therefore, represent significant competition. Our products, when developed and marketed, may compete with existing parenteral or other versions of the same drug, some of which are well established in the marketplace and manufactured by formidable competitors, as well as other existing drugs. For example, our oral heparin product candidate, if successful, would compete with intravenous heparin, injectable low molecular weight heparin and oral warfarin, as well as the recently approved injectable pentasaccharide product. These products are marketed throughout the world by leading pharmaceutical companies such as Aventis Pharma SA, Pfizer, Inc. and Bristol Myers Squibb Company. Similarly, our salmon calcitonin product candidate, if developed and marketed, would compete with a wide array of existing osteoporosis therapies, including a nasal dosage form of salmon calcitonin, estrogen replacement therapy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, bisphosphonates and other compounds in development. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining government approval for products before we do. Developments by others may render our product candidates, or the therapeutic macromolecules used in combination with our product candidates, noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, Nobex Corporation has an oral insulin formulation being developed and at least one competitor has notified the FDA that it is developing a competing formulation of salmon calcitonin. We cannot assure you that, if our products are marketed, they will be preferred to existing drugs or that they will be preferred to or available before other products in development. If a competitor announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or an approval by a regulatory agency of the marketing of a competitive product, such announcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or future prospects resulting from reduced sales of future products that we may wish to bring to market or from an adverse impact on the price of our common stock or our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. We are highly dependent on our executive officers. Our Chairman and CEO, Michael Goldberg, M.D., has been with Emisphere for fifteen years. We would be significantly disadvantaged if Dr. Goldberg were to leave Emisphere. The loss of other officers could have an adverse effect as well, given their specific knowledge related to our proprietary technology and personal relationships with our pharmaceutical company partners. If we are not able to retain our executive officers, our business may suffer. None of our key officers are nearing retirement age or have announced any intention to leave Emisphere. We have an employment contract with Dr. Goldberg that extends through August of 2007. We do not maintain “key-man” life insurance policies for any of our executive officers. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. Additionally, because of the knowledge and experience of our scientific personnel and their specific knowledge with respect to our drug carriers the continued development of our product candidates could be adversely affected by the loss of any significant number of such personnel. 24 Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may dissuade potential acquirors, prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Of these 1,000,000 shares, 200,000 are currently designated Series A Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (“A Preferred Stock”) in connection with our stockholder rights plan, and the remaining 800,000 shares remain available for future issuance. Rights of holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We also have a stockholder rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” in which Preferred Stock Purchase Rights (the “Rights”) have been granted at the rate of one one-hundredth of a share of A Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $80 for each share of our common stock. The Rights are not exercisable or transferable apart from the common stock, until the earlier of (i) ten days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons have acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or such later date, as defined) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person, or group, of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. If we enter into consolidation, merger, or other business combinations, as defined, each Right would entitle the holder upon exercise to receive, in lieu of shares of A Preferred Stock, a number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value of two times the exercise price of the Right, as defined. By potentially diluting the ownership of the acquiring company, our rights plan may dissuade prospective acquirors of our company. An amendment to the stockholder rights plan was approved in September 2005 that specifically excludes MHR from the provisions of the plan. The A Preferred Stockholders will be entitled to a preferential cumulative quarterly dividend of the greater of $1.00 per share or 100 times the per-share dividend declared on our stock and are also entitled to a liquidation preference, thereby hindering an acquiror’s ability to freely pay dividends or to liquidate the company following an acquisition. Each A Preferred Stock share will have 100 votes and will vote together with the common shares, effectively preventing an acquiror from removing existing management. The Rights contain anti-dilutive provisions and are redeemable at our option, subject to certain defined restrictions for $.01 per Right. The Rights expired on February 23, 2006, however our Board of Directors has authorized management to immediately commence the process leading to the establishment of a new rights plan with the same terms as the original plan. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law and financing agreements may prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and members of our Board of Directors and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. In connection with the MHR financing transaction, and after approval by our Board of Directors, as constituted on September 26, 2005, Dr. Mark H. Rachesky was appointed to the Board of Directors by MHR (the “MHR Nominee”) and Dr. Michael Weiser was appointed to the Board of Directors by both the majority of our Board of Directors and MHR (the “Mutual Director”), as contemplated by our recently amended by-laws that also require the consent of the MHR Nominee to increase the size of the Board. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the MHR Nominee and the Mutual Director may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least 85% of the shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at an election of directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual designated by MHR, unless the MHR Nominee has been removed for cause, in which case the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual approved by both a majority of our Board of Directors and MHR. Furthermore, the amendments to the by-laws and the certificate of incorporation provide that the rights granted to MHR by these amendments may not be amended or repealed without the unanimous vote or unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 85% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the election of directors. The amendments to the by-laws and the certificate of incorporation will remain in effect as long as MHR holds at least 2% of the shares of fully diluted Common Stock. The amendments to the by-laws and the certificate of incorporation will have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Additional provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. These include provisions that classify our Board of Directors, limit the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, call special meetings, remove a director for cause, amend the by-laws or approve a merger with another company. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. 25 Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market prices for securities of drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile. Factors that could adversely affect our stock price include: • fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of partnerships or technological collaborations, • innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulation; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others; • the results of preclinical testing and clinical studies or trials by us, our partners or our competitors; • litigation; • general stock market and economic conditions; • number of shares available for trading (float); • inclusion in or dropping from stock indexes. As of December 31, 2005, our 52-week high and low closing market price for our common stock was $5.92 and $2.78, respectively. Future sales of common stock or warrants, or the prospect of future sales, may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock or warrants, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 3,109,425 shares of our common stock that are currently exercisable, and additional outstanding options to purchase up to 980,088 shares of common stock that are exercisable over the next several years. As of December 31, 2005, the Novartis Note is convertible into 2,418,362 shares of common stock. If the MHR Loan is exchanged for the Convertible Note, the Convertible Note will be convertible, at the sole discretion of MHR, into shares of common stock. At December 31, 2005, the Convertible Note would be convertible into approximately 4 million shares. The holders of these options have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock with a resulting dilution in the interests of the other. The existence of these options may adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain additional financing. Finally, in connection with the consummation of the financing transactions with MHR, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with MHR (together with any of MHR’s respective assignees that join the Registration Rights Agreement, the “Holders”). The Registration Rights Agreement obligates us to file a registration statement on Form S-3 within 30 days following the date of the exchange of the Loan into the Convertible Note in order to register the resale of (a) the Convertible Note, (b) shares of our common stock issued upon conversion of the Convertible Note, and (c) any other securities that may be issued, distributed or distributable with respect thereto. The Registration Rights Agreement also obligates us to provide certain additional registration rights to the Holders, including, among others, the right to demand that we file a registration statement in order to permit the Holders to sell registrable securities held by the Holders, piggyback rights and the right to participate in any other registered offering of registrable securities by us, and the right to make an unlimited number of requests upon us to register the resale of our registrable securities held by the Holders on Form S-3. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 