Risk Factors” for further discussion of how our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights”). We seek patent protection on various aspects of our proprietary chemical and pharmaceutical delivery technologies, including the delivery agent compounds and the structures which encompass Emisphere’s delivery agents, their method of preparation, the combination of our compounds with a pharmaceutical, and use of our compounds with therapeutic molecules to treat various disease states. We have patents and patent applications in the U.S. and 15 Table of Contents certain foreign countries. As of March 1, 2013, Emisphere had been granted more than 110 U.S. patents and more than 200 foreign patents. Emisphere also has more than 50 pending U.S. patent applications as well as more than 200 counterpart applications pending in foreign countries. We intend to file additional patent applications when appropriate and to aggressively prosecute, enforce, and defend our patents and other proprietary technology. We have five trademarks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. They include three registrations for Emisphere® in connection with drug delivery agents and research and development in the field of drug delivery systems, and two registrations for ELIGEN® in connection with drug delivery agents and research and development in the field of drug delivery systems. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and continuing innovation in an effort to develop and maintain our competitive position. Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. Others may independently develop similar product candidates or technologies or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products or processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and other patent applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that the patents issued to or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties. The primary raw materials used in making the delivery agents for our product candidates are readily available in large quantities from multiple sources. In the past we manufactured delivery agents internally using our own facilities on a small scale for research and development purposes and for early stage clinical supplies. We believe that our manufacturing capabilities complied with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”). Currently, EMISPHERE® delivery agents are manufactured by third parties in accordance with GMP regulations. We have identified other commercial manufacturers meeting the FDA’s GMP regulations that have the capability of producing EMISPHERE® delivery agents and we do not rely on any particular manufacturer to supply us with needed quantities. Competition Our success depends in part upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of product candidates and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, and with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Our product candidates compete against alternative therapies or alternative delivery systems for each of the medical conditions our product candidates address, independent of the means of delivery. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, experience, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. In many cases we rely on our development partners to develop and market our product candidates. Oral Vitamin B12 Competition Emisphere’s potential competition in the Vitamin B12 market will depend on the direction the company takes in the development and commercialization of the product. In the event that Emisphere pursues the nutritional supplements market, competition would include a number of companies selling generic Vitamin B12 in a variety of dosage strengths and methods of delivery (e.g., oral, transdermal, nasal, sublingual) many of which have substantial distribution and marketing capabilities that exceed and will likely continue to exceed our 16 Table of Contents own. In addition, our competition is likely to include many sellers, distributors, and others who are in the business of marketing, selling, and promoting multiple vitamins, vitamin-mineral, and specialized vitamin combinations. Many of these competitors are engaged in low cost, high volume operations that could provide substantial market barriers or other obstacles for a higher cost, potentially superior product that has no prior market history. In order to successfully penetrate the Vitamin B12 medical food market, the Company will need to successfully demonstrate to physicians, nurse-practitioners and payers that an oral dose would be safe, efficacious, readily-accessible and improve compliance. These factors will likely require the Company to engage in a substantial educational and promotional product launch and a marketing outreach initiative, the time, cost, and outcome of which are uncertain. Oral Diabetes Competition — Type 2 Diabetes In diabetes, there are a number of unmet needs which amplify the need for further product development in the area. There are three main areas of drug therapy, oral anti-diabetes, insulin, and injectable in which companies are attempting to develop innovative products for the treatment of patients. There are four leading classes for new product development in the area of diabetes. All four seek to take advantage of the potential to improve upon currently available products: 1. GLP-1 Agonists 2. Pulmonary Insulin 3. DPP-IV Inhibitors 4. PPAR modulators. The objective of our collaboration with Novo Nordisk is to develop an orally available GLP-1 agonist for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes and potentially obesity. A product with the benefits of glucose control, promotion of weight loss, low risk of hypoglycemia, and other benefits is expected to significantly improve therapeutic options and can be expected to perform as well as or better than the existing competition. Competition Summary Although we believe that our oral formulations, if successful, will likely compete with well-established injectable versions of the same drugs, we believe that we will enjoy a competitive advantage because physicians and patients prefer orally delivered forms of products over injectable forms. Oral forms of products enable improved compliance, and for many programs, the oral form of products enable improved therapeutic regimens. Government Regulation Our operations and product candidates under development are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other governmental authorities in the U.S. and governmental authorities in other countries. The duration of the governmental approval process for marketing new pharmaceutical substances, from the commencement of pre-clinical testing to receipt of governmental approval for marketing a new product, varies with the nature of the product and with the country in which such approval is sought. The approval process for new chemical entities could take eight to ten years or more. The process for reformulations of existing drugs is typically shorter, although a combination of an existing drug with a currently unapproved carrier could require extensive testing. In either case, the procedures required to obtain governmental approval to market new drug products will be costly and time-consuming to us, requiring rigorous testing of the new drug product. Even after such time and effort, regulatory approval may not be obtained for our products. The steps required before we can market or ship a new human pharmaceutical product commercially in the U.S. include pre-clinical testing, the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”), the conduct of clinical trials and the filing with the FDA of either a New Drug Application (“NDA”) for drugs or a Biologic License Application (“BLA”) for biologics. 17 Table of Contents In order to conduct the clinical investigations necessary to obtain regulatory approval of marketing of new drugs in the U.S., we must file an IND with the FDA to permit the shipment and use of the drug for investigational purposes. The IND sets forth, in part, the results of pre-clinical (laboratory and animal) toxicology testing and the applicant’s initial Phase I plans for clinical (human) testing. Unless notified that testing may not begin, the clinical testing may commence 30 days after filing an IND. Under FDA regulations, the clinical testing program required for marketing approval of a new drug typically involves three clinical phases. In Phase I, safety studies are generally conducted on normal, healthy human volunteers to determine the maximum dosages and side effects associated with increasing doses of the substance being tested. Phase II studies are conducted on small groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease to gain preliminary evidence of efficacy, including the range of effective doses, and to determine common short-term side effects and risks associated with the substance being tested. Phase III involves large-scale trials conducted on disease-afflicted patients to provide statistically significant evidence of efficacy and safety and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Frequent reports are required in each phase and if unwarranted hazards to patients are found, the FDA may request modification or discontinuance of clinical testing until further studies have been conducted. The FDA may also require post-approval Phase IV testing either to meet FDA requirements for additional information as a condition of approval. Our drug product candidates are and will be subjected to each step of this lengthy process from conception to market and many of those candidates are still in the early phases of testing. Once clinical testing has been completed pursuant to an IND, the applicant files an NDA or BLA with the FDA seeking approval for marketing the drug product. The FDA reviews the NDA or BLA to determine whether the drug is safe, effective, and adequately labeled, and whether the applicant can demonstrate proper and consistent manufacture of the drug. The time required for initial FDA action on an NDA or BLA is set on the basis of user fee goals; for most NDA or BLAs the action date is 10 months from receipt of the NDA or BLA at the FDA. The initial FDA action at the end of the review period may be approval or a request for additional information that will be needed for approval depending on the characteristics of the drug and whether the FDA has concerns with the evidence submitted. Once our product candidates reach this stage, we will be subjected to these additional costs of time and money. The FDA has different regulations and processes governing and regulating food products, including vitamin supplements and nutraceuticals. These products are variously referred to as “dietary supplements”, “food additives”, “dietary ingredients”, “medical foods”, and, most broadly, “food”. These foods products do not require the IND, NDA or BLA process outlined above. Medical foods, which are defined under the FDA’s 1988 Orphan Drug Act Amendments and are subject to the general food and safety labeling requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, are specially formulated and intended for the dietary management of a disease that has distinctive nutritional needs that cannot be met by normal diet alone. Medical foods are distinct from the broader category of foods for special dietary use and from traditional foods that bear a health claim. In order to be considered a medical food the product must, at a minimum: Ÿ be a food for oral ingestion or tube feeding (nasogastric tube); Ÿ be labeled for the dietary management of a specific medical disorder, disease or condition for which there are distinctive nutritional requirements; and Ÿ be intended to be used under medical supervision. Medical foods require a prescription from a physician. The facilities of each company involved in the commercial manufacturing, processing, testing, control and labeling of pharmaceutical products must be registered with and approved by the FDA. Continued registration requires compliance with GMP regulations and the FDA conducts periodic establishment inspections to confirm continued compliance with its regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to such matters as laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development work. While we do not currently manufacture any commercial products ourselves, if we did, we would bear additional cost of FDA compliance. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical products in the United States is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution and recordkeeping requirements for drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states. Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. We are also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse” issues, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescribing of a particular drug. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to the United States government, including Medicare and Medicaid, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. We have adopted the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, which is a voluntary industry code developed to establish standards for interactions with and communications to healthcare professionals and we have adopted processes that we believe enhance compliance with this code and applicable federal and state laws. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had 10 employees, one of whom is engaged in scientific research and technical functions and nine of whom are performing product management, sales and market planning, logistics and supply chain planning, accounting, information technology, engineering, facilities maintenance, legal and regulatory and administrative functions. Our scientific employee holds a Ph.D. degree. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Corporate Information We were incorporated as Clinical Technologies Associates, Inc. under the laws of Delaware in 1986 and changed our name to Emisphere Technologies, Inc. in 1991. Our principal executive offices are located at 4 Becker Farm Road, Suite 103, Roseland, NJ 07068 and our telephone number is (973) 532-8000. Available Information Emisphere files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (the “SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Emisphere, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Emisphere files with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through our internet website (www.emisphere.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we or the reporting person electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into the Annual Report or this Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which is posted on our website at http://ir.emisphere.com/documentdisplay.cfm?DocumentID=4947. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a number of very significant risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this report in evaluating our company and its business before purchasing shares of our company’s common stock. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks. You could lose all or part of your investment due to any of these risks. Risks Related to the Company We have limited capital resources and significant commitments and obligations. We have limited capital resources and operations to date have been funded with the proceeds from collaborative research agreements, public and private equity and debt financings and income earned on investments. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future, and that our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. As such, we anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to continue operations through approximately December 2015, or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2014, our accumulated deficit was approximately $514.1 million. Our loss from operations was $9.3 million, $7.6 million and $6.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our net loss was $25.4 million, $20.9 million and $1.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our net cash provided (outlays) from operations and capital expenditures were ($8.4) million, $2.9 million and ($3.0) million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net cash provided (outlays) include receipts of deferred revenue of $0.0 million, $10.0 million, and $0.02 million, for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Our stockholders’ deficit was $111.9 million and $86.8 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s obligations included approximately $40.9 million (face value) under its Convertible Notes (the “Convertible Notes”), approximately $8.3 million (face value) under a loan agreement entered into on August 20, 2014 (the “Loan Agreement”), approximately $1.9 million (face value) under its Bridge Notes (the “Bridge Notes”), and approximately $0.7 million (face value) under its Reimbursement Notes (the “Reimbursement Notes”). The Convertible Notes and the Loan Agreement are subject to various sales, operating and manufacturing performance criteria. Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, described in Note 7 to the Financial Statements, Emisphere may borrow, at specified times and based on the attainment of specified performance milestones, up to an aggregate of $20.0 million to finance the development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of its oral Eligen B12™ Rx Product. The new loan facility will mature on December 31, 2019, and bear interest at a rate of 13% per year. The first borrowing under the Loan Agreement occurred on August 20, 2014 in an original principal amount of $5.0 million, the second occurred on November 4, 2014 in an original principal amount of $3.0 million, and the third borrowing occurred on January 6, 2015, in an original principal amount of $5.0 million. Subject to achieving certain operational milestones relating to the timely manufacture and commencement of sales of Eligen B12™, of which there can be no assurance, the Company may request two additional borrowings under the Loan Agreement as follows: up to $5.0 million in the second quarter of 2015, and up to $2.0 million in the third quarter of 2015. We believe the Company’s current cash balance in addition to cash available through additional borrowings under the Loan Agreement, assuming attainment of the milestones, will provide sufficient capital to support the commercial launch of oral Eligen B12™ Rx in the U.S. market and to continue operations through the end of 2015. The Company’s future capital requirements beyond 2015 and future financial success depend largely on the commercial success of the oral Eligen B12™ Rx product and our ability to leverage existing as well as securing new partnering opportunities. There is no assurance that our plans will be successful. If we fail to raise sufficient capital from commercial operations or partnerships, we will need to seek capital from other sources. We cannot assure you that financing will be available on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to generate sufficient 20 Table of Contents additional capital from sales of oral Eligen B12™ Rx product, or to obtain substantial cash inflows from existing or new partners or other sources prior to the end 2015, we could be forced to cease operations. Furthermore, despite our optimism regarding the Eligen® Technology, even in the event that the Company is adequately funded, there is no guarantee that any of our products or product candidates will perform as hoped or that such products can be successfully commercialized. Additionally, if additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Consequently, the audit reports prepared by our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 include an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $3.7 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $1.7 million in working capital deficiency, a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $111.9 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $514.1 million. Our operating loss for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $9.3 million. Since our inception in 1986, we have generated significant losses from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future, and that our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to continue operations through approximately December 2015, or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. While our plan is to raise capital and/or to pursue product partnering opportunities to address our capital deficiencies, we cannot be sure how much we will need to spend in order to develop, market, and manufacture new products and technologies in the future. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. Further, we will not have sufficient resources to develop fully any new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing or to secure funds from new or existing partners. We cannot assure you that financing will be available when needed, or on favorable terms or at all. The current economic environment combined with a number of other factors pose additional challenges to the Company in securing adequate financing under acceptable terms. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Additionally, these conditions may increase the costs to raise capital. Our failure to raise capital when needed would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could force us to reduce or discontinue operations. We are highly dependent upon the commercial success of oral Eligen™ B12 and cannot be sure that our plans will be successful. We expended substantial resources on the development of an oral dosage form of Vitamin B12 which can be marketed as a medical food for use by B12 deficient individuals. We completed a clinical trial which demonstrated that both oral Eligen B12™ (1000 mcg) and injectable B12 (current standard of care) can efficiently and quickly restore normal Vitamin B12 levels in deficient individuals. During November 2009, the Company launched its first commercially available product, oral Eligen B12™ (100 mcg), which had been specifically developed to help improve Vitamin B12 absorption and bioavailability with a patented formulation. During the third quarter 2010, we terminated our distributor agreement for the marketing, distribution and sale of oral Eligen B12™ (100mcg) with Quality Vitamins and Supplements, Inc. to allow us to focus on the development of a higher dose, oral formulation of Eligen B12™ (1000 mcg) to be offered for B12 deficient patients. Our inability to meet our targets for commercializing the B12 product could have a significant material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to make additional borrowings or meet future payment obligations under the terms of the Loan Agreement; fund continuing operations and business expansion are highly dependent upon our ability to meet our 21 Table of Contents commercial targets for the oral Eligen B12™ product in the U.S. and global markets during 2015 and in future years. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in these efforts as these involve activities (or portions of activities) that we have not previously completed. In addition, if we succeed in these activities, Vitamin B12 is available at reasonably low prices both in injections and tablet forms (as well as other forms) through a variety of distributors, sellers, and other sources. We have newly established commercial capabilities. Therefore, we would be entering a highly competitive market with an untested, newly-established commercial capability. This outline of risks involved in the commercialization of our B12 product candidate is not exhaustive, but illustrative. For example, it does not include additional competitive, intellectual property, commercial, product liability, and commercial risks involved in a launch of the B12 product candidate outside the U.S. or certain of such risks in the U.S. We may not be able to meet covenants or financial obligations detailed in our Loan Agreement, Convertible Notes, Reimbursement Notes, and Bridge Notes issued to MHR in August 2014 (collectively, the “MHR Notes”), or the Royalty Agreement If we fail to meet any of the terms or covenants contained in the Loan Agreement, Convertible Notes, Reimbursement Notes, and Bridge Notes issued to MHR in August 2014, or the Royalty Agreement it could result in an increase in the interest rate on the MHR Notes and/or accelerated maturity of the MHR Notes, which we might not be able to satisfy. The MHR Notes are secured by a first priority lien in favor of MHR on substantially all of our assets, and if we default on our obligations under the MHR Notes, MHR may elect to foreclose on such assets, in which event we would be required to cease operations. We are highly dependent on third parties to manufacture, distribute, and sell our products. We have hired expert commercial trade, professional sales, manufacturing, and logistics and customer services vendors to support the commercialization of our oral Eligen B12™ (1000mcg) product. The success of our commercial operations is dependent upon the ability of these vendors to provide a high level of service and support at an economical price. If we fail to attract and retain such professions or services at a reasonable price, or if third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual obligations, meet expected deadlines or conduct our activities in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or our stated specifications, we may not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully execute upon our commercial strategy. We are highly dependent upon collaborative partners to develop and commercialize compounds using our delivery agents. A key part of our strategy is to form collaborations with pharmaceutical companies that will assist us in developing, testing, obtaining government approval for and commercializing oral forms of therapeutic macromolecules using the Eligen® Technology. We currently have collaborative agreements for candidates in clinical development with Novartis and Novo Nordisk, although Novartis has indicated that it has ceased work on all of the programs it had entered into with us. We negotiate specific ownership rights with respect to the intellectual property developed as a result of the collaboration with each partner. While ownership rights vary from program to program, in general we retain ownership rights to developments relating to our carrier and the collaborator retains rights related to the drug product developed. Despite our existing agreements, we cannot make any assurances that: Ÿ we will be able to enter into additional collaborative arrangements to develop products utilizing our drug delivery technology; Ÿ any existing or future collaborative arrangements will be sustainable or successful; Ÿ the product candidates in collaborative arrangements will be further developed by partners in a timely fashion; Ÿ any collaborative partner will not infringe upon our intellectual property position in violation of the terms of the collaboration contract; or Ÿ milestones in collaborative agreements will be met and milestone payments will be received. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain development assistance and funds from other pharmaceutical companies to fund a portion of our product development costs and to commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to issue equity to allow us to raise sufficient capital to fund clinical development of our product candidates. Lack of funding would cause us to delay, curtail, or stop clinical development of one or more of our projects. The determination of the specific project to curtail would depend upon the relative future economic value to us of each program. Our collaborative partners control the clinical development of the drug candidates and may terminate their efforts at will. Novo Nordisk controls the clinical development of oral GLP-1 analogs. Novartis and Novo Nordisk control the decision-making for the design and timing of their clinical studies. Moreover, the agreements with Novartis and Novo Nordisk provide that they may terminate their programs at will for any reason and without any financial penalty or requirement to fund any further clinical studies. Novartis has discontinued all active clinical programs with us, and it is likely that it will terminate all remaining collaboration and license agreements with us in connection with those programs. We cannot make any assurance that Novartis or Novo Nordisk will continue to advance the clinical development of the drug candidates subject to collaboration. Our collaborative partners are free to develop competing products. Aside from provisions preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property by our collaborative partners, there is nothing in our collaborative agreements that prevent our partners from developing competing products. If one of our partners were to develop a competing product, our collaboration could be substantially jeopardized. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we cannot be certain that any will be suitable for commercial purposes. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market, and distribute our products under development, or secure a partner to provide financial and other assistance with these steps. The time necessary to achieve these goals for any individual pharmaceutical product is long and can be uncertain. Before we or a potential partner can sell any of the pharmaceutical products currently under development, pre-clinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for human use for each targeted indication. We have never successfully commercialized a drug or a nonprescription candidate and we cannot be certain that we or our current or future partners will be able to begin, or continue, planned clinical trials for our product candidates, or if we are able, that the product candidates will prove to be safe and will produce their intended effects. Even if our products are safe and effective, the size of the solid dosage form, taste, and frequency of dosage may impede their acceptance by patients. A number of companies in the drug delivery, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after showing promising results in earlier studies or trials. Only a small number of research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Favorable results in any pre-clinical study or early clinical trial do not imply that favorable results will ultimately be obtained in future clinical trials. We cannot make any assurance that results of limited animal and human studies are indicative of results that would be achieved in future animal studies or human clinical studies, all or some of which will be required in order to have our product candidates obtain regulatory approval. Similarly, we cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be approved by the FDA. Even if clinical trials or other studies demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease or condition and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. 23 Table of Contents Our future business success depends heavily upon regulatory approvals, which can be difficult and expensive to obtain. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of prescription drugs and biologic product candidates, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. The process of obtaining required approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities often takes many years, is expensive, and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates. We cannot assure you that we, either independently or in collaboration with others, will meet the applicable regulatory criteria in order to receive the required approvals for manufacturing and marketing. Delays in obtaining U.S. or foreign approvals for our self-developed projects could result in substantial additional costs to us, and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. Additionally, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals encountered by others with whom we collaborate also could adversely affect our business and prospects. Even if regulatory approval of a product is obtained, the approval may place limitations on the intended uses of the product, and may restrict the way in which we or our partner may market the product. The regulatory approval process for our prescription drug product candidates presents several risks to us: Ÿ In general, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval Ÿ Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy, and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first Ÿ Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations or guidelines Ÿ New guidelines can have an effect on the regulatory decisions made in previous years Ÿ The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions, and contraindications that could materially affect the profitability of the drug Ÿ Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market Ÿ Regulatory authorities and agencies may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products Ÿ Once a product receives marketing approval, the FDA may not permit us to market that product for broader or different applications, or may not grant us clearance with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing clearances in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products Additionally, we face the risk that our competitors may gain FDA approval for a product before we do. Having a competitor reach the market before we do would impede the future commercial success for our competing product because we believe that the FDA uses heightened standards of approval for products once approval has been granted to a competing product in a particular product area. We believe that this standard generally limits new approvals to only those products that meet or exceed the standards set by the previously approved product. The regulatory approval process for nonprescription product candidates will likely vary by the nature of therapeutic molecule being delivered. 24 Table of Contents In particular, the European Medical Agency (“EMA”) announced in January 2011 that its committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use has begun to review available data relevant to the potential for increased risk of prostate cancer progression and other types of malignancies in patients taking calcitonin-containing medicines for the prevention of acute bone loss. The announcement indicated that the decision to review followed review of two clinical trials which suggested an increased frequency of malignancies. The EMA indicated it intended to assess the data obtained in the balance of risks and benefits of calcitonin-containing medicines. Our collaboration partner Novartis has indicated to us that it has responded to the EMA’s request for information. Novartis notified us that it has informed the FDA of the EMA request, and has provided the FDA with relevant data regarding calcitonin at its request. Subsequent to these actions, Novartis announced that it is discontinuing the oral salmon calcitonin program. On July 20, 2012, the European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use issued a press release in which it recommended that calcitonin-containing medicines should only be used for short-term treatment, because of evidence that long-term use of these medicines is associated with an increased risk of cancer. Our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights. Although we have patents for some of our product candidates and have applied for additional patents, there can be no assurance that patents applied for will be granted, that patents granted to or acquired by us now or in the future will be valid and enforceable and provide us with meaningful protection from competition, or that we will possess the financial resources necessary to enforce any of our patents. Also, we cannot be certain that any products that we (or a licensee) develop will not infringe upon any patent or other intellectual property right of a third party. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. We maintain a policy of requiring employees, scientific advisors, consultants, and collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of a relationship with us. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Part of our strategy involves collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development of new formulations of drugs developed by others and, ultimately, the receipt of royalties on sales of the new formulations of those drugs. These drugs are generally the property of the pharmaceutical companies and may be the subject of patents or patent applications and other rights of protection owned by the pharmaceutical companies. To the extent those patents or other forms of rights expire, become invalid or otherwise ineffective, or to the extent those drugs are covered by patents or other forms of protection owned by third parties, sales of those drugs by the collaborating pharmaceutical company may be restricted, limited, enjoined, or may cease. Accordingly, the potential for royalty revenues to us may be adversely affected. We may be at risk of having to obtain a license from third parties making proprietary improvements to our technology. There is a possibility that third parties may make improvements or innovations to our technology in a more expeditious manner than we do. Although we are not aware of any such circumstance related to our product portfolio, should such circumstances arise, we may need to obtain a license from such third party to obtain the benefit of the improvement or innovation. Royalties payable under such a license would reduce our share of total revenue. Such a license may not be available to us at all or on commercially reasonable terms. Although we currently do not know of any circumstances related to our product portfolio which would lead us to believe that a third party has developed any improvements or innovation with respect to our technology, we cannot assure you that such circumstances will not arise in the future. We cannot reasonably determine the cost to us of the effect of being unable to obtain any such license. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture and test our products. Currently, we have no long term manufacturing agreements in place and no manufacturing facilities for production of our carriers or any therapeutic compounds being commercialized or under consideration as 25 Table of Contents products. We have no facilities for clinical testing. The success of our self-developed programs is dependent upon securing manufacturing capabilities and contracting with clinical service and other service providers. The availability of manufacturers is limited by both the capacity of such manufacturers and their regulatory compliance. Among the conditions for FDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s current GMP (GMP are regulations established by the FDA that govern the manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs intended for human use). In complying with GMP, manufacturers must devote extensive time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control and quality assurance to maintain full technical compliance. Manufacturing facilities and company records are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to ensure compliance. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with these requirements, regulatory enforcement action may be taken by the FDA, which may include seeking an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and recall of products previously shipped from the facility. Such actions could severely delay our ability to obtain product from that particular source. The success of our clinical trials and our partnerships is dependent on the proposed or current partner’s capacity and ability to adequately manufacture drug products to meet the proposed demand of each respective market. Any significant delay in obtaining a supply source (which could result from, for example, an FDA determination that such manufacturer does not comply with current GMP) could harm our potential for success. Additionally, if a current manufacturer were to lose its ability to meet our supply demands during a clinical trial, the trial may be delayed or may even need to be abandoned. The availability and amount of reimbursement for oral Eligen B12™ and our product candidates, and the manner in which government and private payers may reimburse for our products, are uncertain. Sales of Eligen B12™ or any of our product candidates will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. The future magnitude of our revenues and profitability may be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care. We cannot predict the effect that private sector or governmental health care reforms may have on our business, and there can be no assurance that any such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in both the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription drugs are dependent in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. The ability to obtain reimbursement of our products from these parties is a critical factor in the commercial success for any of our products. Failure to obtain reimbursement could result in reduced or no sales of our products. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved health care products. There can be no assurance that our products will be considered cost-effective or that adequate third-party reimbursement will be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for medical products and services. Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost of commercializing oral Eligen B12™ and our products candidates, affect the prices we may obtain and limit reimbursement amounts. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our revenues from future sales of our products. The Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, enacted in December 2003, has altered the way in which some physician-administered drugs and biologics are reimbursed by Medicare Part B. Under this reimbursement methodology, physicians are reimbursed based on a product’s “average sales price.” This reimbursement 26 Table of Contents methodology has generally led to lower reimbursement levels. This legislation also added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, which went into effect in January 2006. These benefits are provided primarily through private entities, which we expect will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the PPACA, may have a significant impact on the healthcare system. As part of this legislative initiative, Congress enacted a number of provisions that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of healthcare costs, which could significantly change the market for pharmaceuticals and biological products. The provisions of the PPACA could, among other things, increase pressure on drug pricing or make it more costly for patients to gain access to prescription drugs like our product candidates at affordable prices. This could ultimately lead to fewer prescriptions for our product candidates and could force individuals who are prescribed our products to pay significant out-of-pocket costs or pay for the prescription entirely by themselves. As a result of such initiatives, market acceptance and commercial success of our products, once approved, may be limited and our business may be harmed. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or future products. We have product liability insurance with a policy limit of $7.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. The testing, manufacture, and marketing of products for humans utilizing our drug delivery technology may expose us to potential product liability and other claims. These may be claims directly by consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. We seek to structure development programs with pharmaceutical companies that would complete the development, manufacturing and marketing of the finished product in a manner that would protect us from such liability, but the indemnity undertakings for product liability claims that we secure from the pharmaceutical companies may prove to be insufficient. We face rapid technological change and intense competition. Our success depends, in part, upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists, and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, as well as with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Many of these competitors have greater research and development capabilities, experience, and marketing, financial, and managerial resources than we have, and, therefore, represent significant competition. Our products, when developed and marketed, may compete with existing parenteral or other versions of the same drug, some of which are well established in the marketplace and manufactured by formidable competitors, as well as other existing drugs. For example, our salmon calcitonin product candidate, if developed and marketed, would compete with a wide array of existing osteoporosis therapies, including a nasal dosage form of salmon calcitonin, estrogen replacement therapy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, bisphosphonates, and other compounds in development. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining government approval for products before we do. Developments by others may render our product candidates, or the therapeutic macromolecules used in combination with our product candidates, noncompetitive or obsolete. At least one competitor has notified the FDA that it is developing a competing formulation of salmon calcitonin. If our products are marketed, we cannot assure you that they will be preferred to existing drugs or that they will be preferred to or available before other products in development. If a competitor announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or an approval by a regulatory agency of the marketing of a competitive product, such announcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or future prospects resulting from reduced sales of future products that we may wish to bring to market or from an adverse impact on the price of our common stock or our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. 27 Table of Contents We are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. We are dependent on our executive officers. The loss of one or more members of our executive officers or key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, given their specific knowledge related to our proprietary technology and personal relationships with our pharmaceutical company partners. If we are not able to retain our executive officers, our business may suffer. We do not maintain “key-man” life insurance policies for any of our executive officers. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. Additionally, because of the knowledge and experience of our scientific personnel and their specific knowledge with respect to our drug carriers the continued development of our product candidates could be adversely affected by the loss of any significant number of such personnel. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan may dissuade potential acquirers, prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Of these 4,000,000 shares, the Board of Directors has the authority to designate that number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (“A Preferred Stock”) as is required under our stockholders rights plan described below. Those shares of preferred stock not designated as A Preferred Stock remain available for future issuance. Rights of holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We also have a stockholders rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” in which A Preferred Stock purchase rights (the “Rights”) have been granted at the rate of one one-hundredth of a share of A Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $80 for each share of our common stock. The Rights are not exercisable or transferable apart from the common stock, until the earlier of (i) ten days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons have acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or such later date, as defined) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person, or group, of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. If we enter into consolidation, merger, or other business combination, as defined in the stockholders rights plan, each Right would entitle the holder upon exercise to receive, in lieu of shares of A Preferred Stock, a number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value of two times the exercise price of the Right, as defined in the stockholders rights plan. By potentially diluting the ownership of the acquiring company, our rights plan may dissuade prospective acquirers of our company. MHR is specifically excluded from the provisions of the plan. The holders of A Preferred Stock would be entitled to a preferential cumulative quarterly dividend of the greater of $1.00 per share or 100 times the per-share dividend declared on our stock and are also entitled to a liquidation preference, thereby hindering an acquirer’s ability to freely pay dividends or to liquidate the company following an acquisition. Each A Preferred Stock share will have 100 votes and will vote together with the common shares, effectively preventing an acquirer from removing existing management. The Rights contain anti-dilutive provisions and are redeemable at our option, subject to certain defined restrictions for $.01 per Right. The Rights expire on April 7, 2016. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law and financing agreements may prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and members of our Board of Directors and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. In connection with the MHR financing transaction in 2005, and after approval by our Board of Directors, Dr. Mark H. Rachesky was appointed to the Board of Directors by MHR (the “MHR Nominee”) and Dr. Michael 28 Table of Contents Weiser was appointed to the Board of Directors by both the majority of our Board of Directors and MHR (the “Mutual Director”), as contemplated by our bylaws and certificate of incorporation. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the MHR Nominee and the Mutual Director may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least 85% of the shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at an election of directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual designated by MHR unless the MHR Nominee has been removed for cause, in which case the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual approved by both a majority of our Board of Directors and MHR. Furthermore, certain amendments to the bylaws and the certificate of incorporation provide that the rights granted to MHR by these amendments may not be amended or repealed without the unanimous vote or unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 85% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the election of directors. The amendments to the bylaws and the certificate of incorporation will remain in effect as long as MHR holds at least 2% of the shares of fully diluted Common Stock. The amendments to the bylaws and the certificate of incorporation will have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Additional provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. These include provisions that classify our Board of Directors, limit the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, call special meetings, remove a director for cause, amend the bylaws or approve a merger with another company. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market prices for securities of drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile. Factors that could adversely affect our stock price include: Ÿ fluctuations in our operating results; Ÿ announcements of partnerships or technological collaborations and announcements of the results or further actions in respect of any partnerships or collaborations, including termination of same; Ÿ innovations or new products by us or our competitors; Ÿ governmental regulation; Ÿ developments in patent or other proprietary rights; Ÿ public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others; Ÿ the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical studies or trials by us, our partners or our competitors; Ÿ litigation; Ÿ general stock market and economic conditions; Ÿ number of shares available for trading (float); and Ÿ inclusion in or dropping from stock indexes. As of December 31, 2014, our 52-week high and low closing market price for our common stock was $0.45 and $0.17, respectively. 29 Table of Contents Future sales of common stock or warrants, or the prospect of future sales, may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock or warrants, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as of December 31, 2014, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 3,174,094 shares of our common stock that are currently exercisable, and additional outstanding options to purchase up to 1,396,933 shares of common stock that are exercisable over the next several years. As of December 31, 2014, the Convertible Notes were convertible into 32,717,484 shares of our common stock; the Bridge Notes were convertible into 3,710,158 shares of our common stock; and the Reimbursement Notes were convertible into 1,365,606 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2014, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 27,443,727 shares of our stock. The holders of these options have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock with a resulting dilution in the interests of the other shareholders. The existence of these options may adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain additional financing. The weighted average exercise price of issued and outstanding options is $0.84 and the weighted average exercise price of warrants is $0.63, which compares to the $0.28 market price at closing on December 31, 2014. Additionally, there may be additional shares available on the market if we are required to file additional re-sale registration statements on Form S-1, including if MHR exercises its registration rights under its Registration Rights Agreement with the Company dated September 26, 2005. Because the Company’s common stock is on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets, the volume of shares traded and the prices at which such shares trade may result in lower prices than might otherwise exist if our common stock was traded on a national securities exchange. The Company’s shares are traded on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets. Stock traded on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets is often less liquid than stock traded on national securities exchanges, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also in terms of delays in the timing of transactions and reduced coverage of the Company by security analysts and media. This may result in lower prices for the Company’s common stock than might otherwise be obtained if the common stock were traded on a national securities exchange, and may also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for the Company’s common stock. There is no guarantee that the Company will ever be able to re-list its common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market or any other market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 