Risk Factors” for further discussion of how our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights”). We seek patent protection on various aspects of our proprietary chemical and pharmaceutical delivery technologies, 17 Table of Contents including the delivery agent compounds and the structures which encompass Emisphere’s delivery agents, their method of preparation, the combination of our compounds with a pharmaceutical, and use of our compounds with therapeutic molecules to treat various disease states. We have patents and patent applications in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. As of March 1, 2012, Emisphere had been granted more than 110 U.S. patents and more than 200 foreign patents. Emisphere also has more than 50 pending U.S. patent applications as well as more than 200 counterpart applications pending in foreign countries. We intend to file additional patent applications when appropriate and to aggressively prosecute, enforce, and defend our patents and other proprietary technology. We have five trademarks granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office. They include EMISPHERE®, Elaprin® (oral heparin), the Emisphere logo, Emigent® and Eligen®. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and continuing innovation in an effort to develop and maintain our competitive position. Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical fields is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. Others may independently develop similar product candidates or technologies or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products or processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and other patent applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that the patents issued to or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties. Manufacturing The primary raw materials used in making the delivery agents for our product candidates are readily available in large quantities from multiple sources. In the past we manufactured delivery agents internally using our own facilities on a small scale for research purposes and for early stage clinical supplies. We believed that our manufacturing capabilities complied with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”). Currently, EMISPHERE® delivery agents are manufactured by third parties in accordance with GMP regulations. We have identified other commercial manufacturers meeting the FDA’s GMP regulations that have the capability of producing EMISPHERE® delivery agents and we do not rely on any particular manufacturer to supply us with needed quantities. During April 2009, we announced a strategic alliance with AAIPharma, Inc. intended to expand the application of Emisphere’s Eligen® Technology and AAIPharma’s drug development services. AAIPharma is a global provider of pharmaceutical product development services that enhance the therapeutic performance of its clients’ drugs. AAIPharma works with many pharmaceutical and biotech companies and currently provides drug product formulation development services to Emisphere. This relationship expands our access to new therapeutic candidates for the Eligen® Technology, which potentially could lead to new products and to new alliance agreements as well. Competition Our success depends in part upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of product candidates and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, and with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Our product candidates compete against alternative therapies or alternative delivery systems for each of the medical conditions our product candidates address, independent of the means of delivery. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, experience, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we have. In many cases we rely on our development partners to develop and market our product candidates. 18 Table of Contents Oral Diabetes Competition — Type 2 Diabetes In diabetes, there are a number of unmet needs which amplify the need for further product development in the area. There are three main areas of drug therapy, oral anti-diabetes, insulin, and injectable in which companies are attempting to develop innovative products for the treatment of patients. There are four leading classes for new product development in the area of diabetes. All four seek to take advantage of the potential to improve upon currently available products: 1. GLP-1 Agonists 2. Pulmonary Insulin 3. DPP-IV Inhibitors 4. PPAR modulators. The objective of our collaboration with Novo Nordisk is to develop an orally available GLP-1 agonist for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes and potentially obesity. A product with the benefits of glucose control, promotion of weight loss, low risk of hypoglycemia, and other benefits is expected to significantly improve therapeutic options and can be expected to perform as well as or better than the existing competition. Oral Vitamin B12 Competition Emisphere’s potential competition in the Vitamin B12 market will depend on the direction the company takes in the development and commercialization of the product. In the event that Emisphere pursues the nutritional supplements market, competition would include a number of companies selling generic Vitamin B12 in a variety of dosage strengths and methods of delivery (e.g., oral, transdermal, nasal, sublingual) many of which have substantial distribution and marketing capabilities that exceed and will likely continue to exceed our own. In addition, our competition is likely to include many sellers, distributors, and others who are in the business of marketing, selling, and promoting multiple vitamins, vitamin-mineral, and specialized vitamin combinations. Many of these competitors are engaged in low cost, high volume operations that could provide substantial market barriers or other obstacles for a higher cost, potentially superior product that has no prior market history. If Emisphere pursues the Vitamin B12 medical food market, the Company would need to successfully demonstrate to physicians, nurse-practitioners and payors that an oral dose would be safe, efficacious, readily accessible and improve compliance. These factors will likely require the Company to engage in a substantial educational and promotional product launch and a marketing outreach initiative, the time, cost, and outcome of which are uncertain. Competition Summary Although we believe that our oral formulations, if successful, will likely compete with well established injectable versions of the same drugs, we believe that we will enjoy a competitive advantage because physicians and patients prefer orally delivered forms of products over injectable forms. Oral forms of products enable improved compliance, and for many programs, the oral form of products enable improved therapeutic regimens. Government Regulation Our operations and product candidates under development are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other governmental authorities in the U.S. and governmental authorities in other countries. The duration of the governmental approval process for marketing new pharmaceutical substances, from the commencement of pre-clinical testing to receipt of governmental approval for marketing a new product, varies with the nature of the product and with the country in which such approval is sought. The approval process for new chemical entities could take eight to ten years or more. The process for reformulations of existing drugs is typically shorter, although a combination of an existing drug with a currently unapproved carrier could require extensive testing. In either case, the procedures required to obtain governmental approval to market new drug products will be costly and time-consuming to us, requiring rigorous testing of the new drug product. Even after such time and effort, regulatory approval may not be obtained for our products. 19 Table of Contents The steps required before we can market or ship a new human pharmaceutical product commercially in the U.S. include pre-clinical testing, the filing of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”), the conduct of clinical trials and the filing with the FDA of either a New Drug Application (“NDA”) for drugs or a Biologic License Application (“BLA”) for biologics. In order to conduct the clinical investigations necessary to obtain regulatory approval of marketing of new drugs in the U.S., we must file an IND with the FDA to permit the shipment and use of the drug for investigational purposes. The IND sets forth, in part, the results of pre-clinical (laboratory and animal) toxicology testing and the applicant’s initial Phase I plans for clinical (human) testing. Unless notified that testing may not begin, the clinical testing may commence 30 days after filing an IND. Under FDA regulations, the clinical testing program required for marketing approval of a new drug typically involves three clinical phases. In Phase I, safety studies are generally conducted on normal, healthy human volunteers to determine the maximum dosages and side effects associated with increasing doses of the substance being tested. Phase II studies are conducted on small groups of patients afflicted with a specific disease to gain preliminary evidence of efficacy, including the range of effective doses, and to determine common short-term side effects and risks associated with the substance being tested. Phase III involves large-scale trials conducted on disease-afflicted patients to provide statistically significant evidence of efficacy and safety and to provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Frequent reports are required in each phase and if unwarranted hazards to patients are found, the FDA may request modification or discontinuance of clinical testing until further studies have been conducted. Phase IV testing is sometimes conducted, either to meet FDA requirements for additional information as a condition of approval. Our drug product candidates are and will be subjected to each step of this lengthy process from conception to market and many of those candidates are still in the early phases of testing. Once clinical testing has been completed pursuant to an IND, the applicant files an NDA or BLA with the FDA seeking approval for marketing the drug product. The FDA reviews the NDA or BLA to determine whether the drug is safe, effective, and adequately labeled, and whether the applicant can demonstrate proper and consistent manufacture of the drug. The time required for initial FDA action on an NDA or BLA is set on the basis of user fee goals; for most NDA or BLAs the action date is 10 months from receipt of the NDA or BLA at the FDA. The initial FDA action at the end of the review period may be approval or a request for additional information that will be needed for approval depending on the characteristics of the drug and whether the FDA has concerns with the evidence submitted. Once our product candidates reach this stage, we will be subjected to these additional costs of time and money. The FDA has different regulations and processes governing and regulating food products, including vitamin supplements and nutraceuticals. These products are variously referred to as “dietary supplements”, “food additives”, “dietary ingredients”, “medical foods”, and, most broadly, “food”. These foods products do not require the IND, NDA or BLA process outlined above. The facilities of each company involved in the commercial manufacturing, processing, testing, control and labeling of pharmaceutical products must be registered with and approved by the FDA. Continued registration requires compliance with GMP regulations and the FDA conducts periodic establishment inspections to confirm continued compliance with its regulations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to such matters as laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development work. While we do not currently manufacture any commercial products ourselves, if we did, we would bear additional cost of FDA compliance. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had 11 employees, 7 of whom are engaged in scientific research and technical functions and 4 of whom are performing accounting, information technology, engineering, facilities maintenance, legal and regulatory and administrative functions. Of the 7 scientific employees, 3 hold Ph.D. and/or D.V.M. degrees. We believe our relations with our employees are good. 20 Table of Contents Available Information Emisphere files annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Emisphere, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Emisphere files with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through our internet website (www.emisphere.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 16 of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we or the reporting person electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into the Annual Report or this Form 10-K. Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which is posted on our website at http://ir.emisphere.com/documentdisplay.cfm?DocumentID=4947. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements From time to time, information provided by us, statements made by our employees or information included in our filings with the SEC (including this Report) may contain statements that are not historical facts, so-called “forward-looking statements,” which involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “plans,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “believe” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Report. Our actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in any forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. Risks Related to the Company We have limited capital resources and we may default on our obligations to MHR. We have limited capital resources and operations to date have been funded with the proceeds from collaborative research agreements, public and private equity and debt financings and income earned on investments. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future, and that our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. As such, we anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to continue operations through approximately September 26, 2012, at which time the MHR Convertible Notes, described below, come due, or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. Further, we have significant future commitments and obligations. On September 26, 2005, we executed a Senior Secured Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with MHR Fund Management, LLC and entities affiliated with it (collectively, “MHR”). The Loan Agreement, as amended, provides for a seven year, $15 million secured loan from MHR to us at an interest rate of 11% (the “Loan”). Under the Loan Agreement, MHR requested, and on May 16, 2006 we effected, the exchange of the Loan for 11% senior secured convertible notes (the “MHR Convertible Notes”) with substantially the same terms as the Loan Agreement, except that the MHR Convertible Notes are convertible, at the sole discretion of MHR or 21 Table of Contents any assignee thereof, into shares of our common stock at a price per share of $3.78. Interest will be payable in the form of additional MHR Convertible Notes rather than in cash. The MHR Convertible Notes are secured by a first priority lien in favor of MHR on substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2011, the book value of MHR Notes outstanding including principal, interest and discount for warrant purchase option and embedded conversion features is $25.44 million. The amount payable at maturity will be approximately $30.5 million. On September 26, 2012, or earlier if an event of default occurs, the MHR Convertible Notes provide for the immediate repayment of the Notes in full. At such time, we may not be able to make the required payment, and if we are unable to pay the amount due under the MHR Convertible Notes, the resulting default would enable MHR to foreclose on all of our assets. Any of the foregoing events would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our stockholders’ investments in our common stock. While our plan is to raise capital when needed and/or to pursue partnering opportunities, we cannot be sure that our plans will be successful. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Consequently, the audit reports prepared by our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 include an explanatory paragraph expressing the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are pursuing new as well as enhanced collaborations and exploring other financing options, with the objective of minimizing dilution and disruption. If we fail to raise additional capital or obtain substantial cash inflows from existing partners prior to September 26, 2012, we could be forced to cease operations. We have a history of operating losses and we may never achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $3.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $33.2 million in working capital deficiency, a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $64.5 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $465.9 million. Our operating loss for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 was approximately $8.1 million. Since our inception in 1986, we have generated significant losses from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future, and that our business will require substantial additional investment that we have not yet secured. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In light of the approximately $7.5 million raised in the recent July 2011 Financing (as discussed below), we anticipate that our existing capital resources will enable us to continue operations through approximately September 26, 2012, or earlier if unforeseen events or circumstances arise that negatively affect our liquidity. If we fail to raise additional capital or obtain substantial cash inflows from existing partners prior to September 26, 2012, we will be forced to cease operations. While our plan is to raise capital when needed and/or to pursue product partnering opportunities, we cannot be sure how much we will need to spend in order to develop, market, and manufacture new products and technologies in the future. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development, including amounts spent on conducting clinical trials for our product candidates. Further, we will not have sufficient resources to develop fully any new products or technologies unless we are able to raise substantial additional financing or to secure funds from new or existing partners. We cannot assure you that financing will be available when needed, or on favorable terms or at all. The current economic environment combined with a number of other factors pose additional challenges to the Company in securing adequate financing under acceptable terms. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Additionally, these conditions may increase the costs to raise capital. Our failure to raise capital when needed would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could force us to reduce or discontinue operations. We may not be able to meet the covenants detailed in the MHR Convertible Notes, which could result in an increase in the interest rate on the Convertible Notes and/or accelerated maturity of the Convertible Notes, which we would not be able to satisfy. The MHR Convertible Notes provide for certain events of default including, among other things, failure to perfect liens in favor of MHR created by the transaction, failure to observe any covenant or agreement, failure to 22 Table of Contents maintain the listing and trading of our common stock, sale of a substantial portion of our assets, or merger with another entity without the prior consent of MHR, or the occurrence of any governmental action that renders us unable to honor or perform our obligations under the MHR Convertible Notes or results in a material adverse effect on our operations. If an event of default occurs, the MHR Convertible Notes provide for the immediate repayment of the Notes and certain additional amounts as set forth in the MHR Convertible Notes. At such time, we may not be able to make the required payment, and if we are unable to pay the amount due under the MHR Convertible Notes, the resulting default would enable MHR to foreclose on all of our assets. Any of the foregoing events would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our stockholders’ investments in our common stock. We currently have a waiver from MHR for failure to perfect liens on certain intellectual property rights through September 26, 2012. Our business will suffer if we fail or are delayed in commercializing an improved oral form of Vitamin B12. We expended substantial resources on the development of an oral dosage form of Vitamin B12 which can be marketed as a medical food for use by B12 deficient individuals. We completed a clinical trial which demonstrated that both oral Eligen® B12 (1000 mcg) and injectable B12 (current standard of care) can efficiently and quickly restore normal Vitamin B12 levels in deficient individuals. During November 2009, the Company launched its first commercially available product, oral Eligen® B12 (100 mcg), which had been specifically developed to help improve Vitamin B12 absorption and bioavailability with a patented formulation. During the third quarter 2010, we terminated our distributor agreement for the marketing, distribution and sale of oral Eligen® B12 (100mcg) with Quality Vitamins and Supplements, Inc. to allow us to focus on the development of a higher dose, oral formulation of Eligen® B12 (1000 mcg) to be offered for B12 deficient patients. Our inability or delay in commercializing the B12 product candidate could have a significant material adverse effect on our business. To commercialize this higher dose product candidate, we will be required to develop a market introduction plan, and possibly obtain financing to support our commercialization efforts, among other things. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in these efforts as these involve activities (or portions of activities) that we have not previously completed. In addition, if we succeed in these activities, Vitamin B12 is available at reasonably low prices both in injections and tablet forms (as well as other forms) through a variety of distributors, sellers, and other sources. We have no current commercial capabilities. Therefore, we would be entering a highly competitive market with an untested, newly-established commercial capability. This outline of risks involved in the commercialization of our B12 product candidate is not exhaustive, but illustrative. For example, it does not include additional competitive, intellectual property, commercial, product liability, and commercial risks involved in a launch of the B12 product candidate outside the U.S. or certain of such risks in the U.S. We are highly dependent upon collaborative partners to develop and commercialize compounds using our delivery agents. A key part of our strategy is to form collaborations with pharmaceutical companies that will assist us in developing, testing, obtaining government approval for and commercializing oral forms of therapeutic macromolecules using the Eligen® Technology. We currently have collaborative agreements for candidates in clinical development with Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genta, although Novartis has indicated that it has ceased work on all of the programs it had entered into with us. We negotiate specific ownership rights with respect to the intellectual property developed as a result of the collaboration with each partner. While ownership rights vary from program to program, in general we retain ownership rights to developments relating to our carrier and the collaborator retains rights related to the drug product developed. Despite our existing agreements, we cannot make any assurances that: Ÿ we will be able to enter into additional collaborative arrangements to develop products utilizing our drug delivery technology; Ÿ any existing or future collaborative arrangements will be sustainable or successful; 23 Table of Contents Ÿ the product candidates in collaborative arrangements will be further developed by partners in a timely fashion; Ÿ any collaborative partner will not infringe upon our intellectual property position in violation of the terms of the collaboration contract; or Ÿ milestones in collaborative agreements will be met and milestone payments will be received. If we are unable to obtain development assistance and funds from other pharmaceutical companies to fund a portion of our product development costs and to commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to issue equity to allow us to raise sufficient capital to fund clinical development of our product candidates. Lack of funding would cause us to delay, curtail, or stop clinical development of one or more of our projects. The determination of the specific project to curtail would depend upon the relative future economic value to us of each program. Our collaborative partners control the clinical development of the drug candidates and may terminate their efforts at will. Novo Nordisk controls the clinical development of oral GLP-1 analogs. Genta controls the clinical development of oral gallium. Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genta control the decision-making for the design and timing of their clinical studies. Moreover, the agreements with Novartis, Novo Nordisk and Genta provide that they may terminate their programs at will for any reason and without any financial penalty or requirement to fund any further clinical studies. Novartis has discontinued all active clinical programs with us, and it is likely that it will terminate all remaining collaboration and license agreements with us in connection with those programs. We cannot make any assurance that Novartis, Novo Nordisk or Genta will continue to advance the clinical development of the drug candidates subject to collaboration. Our collaborative partners are free to develop competing products. Aside from provisions preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property by our collaborative partners, there is nothing in our collaborative agreements that prevent our partners from developing competing products. If one of our partners were to develop a competing product, our collaboration could be substantially jeopardized. Our product candidates are in various stages of development, and we cannot be certain that any will be suitable for commercial purposes. To be profitable, we must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market, and distribute our products under development, or secure a partner to provide financial and other assistance with these steps. The time necessary to achieve these goals for any individual pharmaceutical product is long and can be uncertain. Before we or a potential partner can sell any of the pharmaceutical products currently under development, pre-clinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for human use for each targeted indication. We have never successfully commercialized a drug or a nonprescription candidate and we cannot be certain that we or our current or future partners will be able to begin, or continue, planned clinical trials for our product candidates, or if we are able, that the product candidates will prove to be safe and will produce their intended effects. Even if our products are safe and effective, the size of the solid dosage form, taste, and frequency of dosage may impede their acceptance by patients. A number of companies in the drug delivery, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after showing promising results in earlier studies or trials. Only a small number of research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Favorable results in any pre-clinical study or early clinical trial do not imply that favorable results will ultimately be obtained in future clinical trials. We cannot make any assurance that results of limited animal and human studies are indicative of results that would be achieved in future animal studies or human clinical studies, all or some of which will be required in order to have our product candidates obtain regulatory approval. Similarly, we cannot 24 Table of Contents assure you that any of our product candidates will be approved by the FDA. Even if clinical trials or other studies demonstrate safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease or condition and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our partners’ ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Our future business success depends heavily upon regulatory approvals, which can be difficult and expensive to obtain. Our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials of our prescription drug and biologic product candidates, as well as the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. The process of obtaining required approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities often takes many years, is expensive, and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates. We cannot assure you that we, either independently or in collaboration with others, will meet the applicable regulatory criteria in order to receive the required approvals for manufacturing and marketing. Delays in obtaining U.S. or foreign approvals for our self-developed projects could result in substantial additional costs to us, and, therefore, could adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. Additionally, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals encountered by others with whom we collaborate also could adversely affect our business and prospects. Even if regulatory approval of a product is obtained, the approval may place limitations on the intended uses of the product, and may restrict the way in which we or our partner may market the product. The regulatory approval process for our prescription drug product candidates presents several risks to us: Ÿ In general, pre-clinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources. The data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval Ÿ Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy, and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first Ÿ Requirements for approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations or guidelines Ÿ New guidelines can have an effect on the regulatory decisions made in previous years Ÿ The scope of any regulatory approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions, and contraindications that could materially affect the profitability of the drug Ÿ Approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market Ÿ Regulatory authorities and agencies may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our existing and proposed products Ÿ Once a product receives marketing approval, the FDA may not permit us to market that product for broader or different applications, or may not grant us clearance with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing clearances in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed products 25 Table of Contents Additionally, we face the risk that our competitors may gain FDA approval for a product before we do. Having a competitor reach the market before we do would impede the future commercial success for our competing product because we believe that the FDA uses heightened standards of approval for products once approval has been granted to a competing product in a particular product area. We believe that this standard generally limits new approvals to only those products that meet or exceed the standards set by the previously approved product. The regulatory approval process for nonprescription product candidates will likely vary by the nature of therapeutic molecule being delivered. In particular, the European Medical Agency (“EMA”) announced in January 2011 that its committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use has begun to review available data relevant to the potential for increased risk of prostate cancer progression and other types of malignancies in patients taking calcitonin-containing medicines for the prevention of acute bone loss. The announcement indicated that the decision to review followed review of two clinical trials which suggested an increased frequency of malignancies. The EMA indicated it intended to assess the data obtained in the balance of risks and benefits of calcitonin-containing medicines. Our collaboration partner Novartis has indicated to us that it has responded to the EMA’s request for information. Novartis notified us that it has informed the FDA of the EMA request, and has provided the FDA with relevant data regarding calcitonin at its request. Subsequent to these actions, Novartis announced that it is discontinuing the oral salmon calcitonin program. Our business will suffer if we cannot adequately protect our patent and proprietary rights. Although we have patents for some of our product candidates and have applied for additional patents, there can be no assurance that patents applied for will be granted, that patents granted to or acquired by us now or in the future will be valid and enforceable and provide us with meaningful protection from competition, or that we will possess the financial resources necessary to enforce any of our patents. Also, we cannot be certain that any products that we (or a licensee) develop will not infringe upon any patent or other intellectual property right of a third party. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. We maintain a policy of requiring employees, scientific advisors, consultants, and collaborators to execute confidentiality and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of a relationship with us. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Part of our strategy involves collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development of new formulations of drugs developed by others and, ultimately, the receipt of royalties on sales of the new formulations of those drugs. These drugs are generally the property of the pharmaceutical companies and may be the subject of patents or patent applications and other rights of protection owned by the pharmaceutical companies. To the extent those patents or other forms of rights expire, become invalid or otherwise ineffective, or to the extent those drugs are covered by patents or other forms of protection owned by third parties, sales of those drugs by the collaborating pharmaceutical company may be restricted, limited, enjoined, or may cease. Accordingly, the potential for royalty revenues to us may be adversely affected. We may be at risk of having to obtain a license from third parties making proprietary improvements to our technology. There is a possibility that third parties may make improvements or innovations to our technology in a more expeditious manner than we do. Although we are not aware of any such circumstance related to our product portfolio, should such circumstances arise, we may need to obtain a license from such third party to obtain the benefit of the improvement or innovation. Royalties payable under such a license would reduce our share of total revenue. Such a license may not be available to us at all or on commercially reasonable terms. Although we currently do not know of any circumstances related to our product portfolio which would lead us to believe that a third party has developed any improvements or innovation with respect to our technology, we cannot assure you that such circumstances will not arise in the future. We cannot reasonably determine the cost to us of the effect of being unable to obtain any such license. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on third parties to manufacture and test our products. Currently, we have no manufacturing facilities for production of our carriers or any therapeutic compounds under consideration as products. We have no facilities for clinical testing. The success of our self-developed programs is dependent upon securing manufacturing capabilities and contracting with clinical service and other service providers. The availability of manufacturers is limited by both the capacity of such manufacturers and their regulatory compliance. Among the conditions for FDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with the FDA’s current GMP (GMP are regulations established by the FDA that govern the manufacture, processing, packing, storage and testing of drugs intended for human use). In complying with GMP, manufacturers must devote extensive time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control and quality assurance to maintain full technical compliance. Manufacturing facilities and company records are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to ensure compliance. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with these requirements, regulatory enforcement action may be taken by the FDA, which may include seeking an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and recall of products previously shipped from the facility. Such actions could severely delay our ability to obtain product from that particular source. The success of our clinical trials and our partnerships is dependent on the proposed or current partner’s capacity and ability to adequately manufacture drug products to meet the proposed demand of each respective market. Any significant delay in obtaining a supply source (which could result from, for example, an FDA determination that such manufacturer does not comply with current GMP) could harm our potential for success. Additionally, if a current manufacturer were to lose its ability to meet our supply demands during a clinical trial, the trial may be delayed or may even need to be abandoned. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or future products. We have product liability insurance with a policy limit of $5.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. The testing, manufacture, and marketing of products for humans utilizing our drug delivery technology may expose us to potential product liability and other claims. These may be claims directly by consumers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling our future products. We seek to structure development programs with pharmaceutical companies that would complete the development, manufacturing and marketing of the finished product in a manner that would protect us from such liability, but the indemnity undertakings for product liability claims that we secure from the pharmaceutical companies may prove to be insufficient. We face rapid technological change and intense competition. Our success depends, in part, upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in an evolving field in which developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. We compete with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, research organizations, individual scientists, and non-profit organizations engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing, as well as with entities developing new drugs that may be orally active. Many of these competitors have greater research and development capabilities, experience, and marketing, financial, and managerial resources than we have, and, therefore, represent significant competition. Our products, when developed and marketed, may compete with existing parenteral or other versions of the same drug, some of which are well established in the marketplace and manufactured by formidable competitors, as well as other existing drugs. For example, our salmon calcitonin product candidate, if developed and marketed, would compete with a wide array of existing osteoporosis therapies, including a nasal dosage form of salmon calcitonin, estrogen replacement therapy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, bisphosphonates, and other compounds in development. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining government approval for products before we do. Developments by others may render our product candidates, or the therapeutic macromolecules used in combination with our product candidates, noncompetitive or obsolete. At least one competitor has notified the FDA that it is developing a competing formulation of salmon calcitonin. If our products are marketed, we cannot assure you that they will be preferred to existing drugs or that they will be preferred to or available before other products in development. 27 Table of Contents If a competitor announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or an approval by a regulatory agency of the marketing of a competitive product, such announcement may have a material adverse effect on our operations or future prospects resulting from reduced sales of future products that we may wish to bring to market or from an adverse impact on the price of our common stock or our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. We are dependent on our executive officers. The loss of one or more members of our executive officers or key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, given their specific knowledge related to our proprietary technology and personal relationships with our pharmaceutical company partners. If we are not able to retain our executive officers, our business may suffer. We do not maintain “key-man” life insurance policies for any of our executive officers. In February 2011, Michael V. Novinski resigned as a director of the Company and from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. A comprehensive search is underway to identify our next Chief Executive Officer. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to find a qualified permanent replacement for Mr. Novinski. In addition, the loss of one or more of our other executive officers or key employees or a delay or inability to hire a new Chief Executive Officer could seriously harm our business. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for developing our business. Additionally, because of the knowledge and experience of our scientific personnel and their specific knowledge with respect to our drug carriers the continued development of our product candidates could be adversely affected by the loss of any significant number of such personnel. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law, and our stockholder rights plan may dissuade potential acquirers, prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Of these 1,000,000 shares, the Board of Directors has the authority to designate that number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (“A Preferred Stock”) as is required under our stockholders rights plan described below. Those shares of preferred stock not designated as A Preferred Stock remain available for future issuance. Rights of holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We also have a stockholders rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” in which A Preferred Stock purchase rights (the “Rights”) have been granted at the rate of one one-hundredth of a share of A Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $80 for each share of our common stock. The Rights are not exercisable or transferable apart from the common stock, until the earlier of (i) ten days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons have acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock or (ii) ten business days (or such later date, as defined) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person, or group, of 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. If we enter into consolidation, merger, or other business combination, as defined in the stockholders rights plan, each Right would entitle the holder upon exercise to receive, in lieu of shares of A Preferred Stock, a number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a value of two times the exercise price of the Right, as defined in the stockholders rights plan. By potentially diluting the ownership of the acquiring company, our rights plan may dissuade prospective acquirors of our company. MHR is specifically excluded from the provisions of the plan. The holders of A Preferred Stock would be entitled to a preferential cumulative quarterly dividend of the greater of $1.00 per share or 100 times the per-share dividend declared on our stock and are also entitled to a liquidation preference, thereby hindering an acquirer’s ability to freely pay dividends or to liquidate the company following an 28 Table of Contents acquisition. Each A Preferred Stock share will have 100 votes and will vote together with the common shares, effectively preventing an acquirer from removing existing management. The Rights contain anti-dilutive provisions and are redeemable at our option, subject to certain defined restrictions for $.01 per Right. The Rights expire on April 7, 2016. Provisions of our corporate charter documents, Delaware law and financing agreements may prevent the replacement or removal of our current management and members of our Board of Directors and may thereby affect the price of our common stock. In connection with the MHR financing transaction in 2005, and after approval by our Board of Directors, Dr. Mark H. Rachesky was appointed to the Board of Directors by MHR (the “MHR Nominee”) and Dr. Michael Weiser was appointed to the Board of Directors by both the majority of our Board of Directors and MHR (the “Mutual Director”), as contemplated by our bylaws and certificate of incorporation. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the MHR Nominee and the Mutual Director may be removed only by the affirmative vote of at least 85% of the shares of common stock outstanding and entitled to vote at an election of directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual designated by MHR unless the MHR Nominee has been removed for cause, in which case the MHR Nominee may be replaced only by an individual approved by both a majority of our Board of Directors and MHR. Furthermore, certain amendments to the bylaws and the certificate of incorporation provide that the rights granted to MHR by these amendments may not be amended or repealed without the unanimous vote or unanimous written consent of the Board of Directors or the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 85% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote at the election of directors. The amendments to the bylaws and the certificate of incorporation will remain in effect as long as MHR holds at least 2% of the shares of fully diluted Common Stock. The amendments to the bylaws and the certificate of incorporation will have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. Additional provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. These include provisions that classify our Board of Directors, limit the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent, call special meetings, remove a director for cause, amend the bylaws or approve a merger with another company. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an “interested stockholder” is a person who, either alone or together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within the past three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market prices for securities of drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile. Factors that could adversely affect our stock price include: Ÿ fluctuations in our operating results; Ÿ announcements of partnerships or technological collaborations and announcements of the results or further actions in respect of any partnerships or collaborations, including termination of same; Ÿ innovations or new products by us or our competitors; Ÿ governmental regulation; Ÿ developments in patent or other proprietary rights; 29 Table of Contents Ÿ public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others; Ÿ the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical studies or trials by us, our partners or our competitors; Ÿ litigation; Ÿ general stock market and economic conditions; Ÿ number of shares available for trading (float); and Ÿ inclusion in or dropping from stock indexes. As of December 31, 2011, our 52-week high and low closing market price for our common stock was $2.41 and $0.145, respectively. Future sales of common stock or warrants, or the prospect of future sales, may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock or warrants, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 2,523,669 shares of our common stock that are currently exercisable, and additional outstanding options to purchase up to 644,961 shares of common stock that are exercisable over the next several years. As of December 31, 2011, the MHR Convertible Notes were convertible into 7,447,995 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 17,843,728 shares of our stock. The holders of these options have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock with a resulting dilution in the interests of the other shareholders. The existence of these options may adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain additional financing. The weighted average exercise price of issued and outstanding options is $3.03 and the weighted average exercise price of warrants is $1.22 which compares to the $0.215 market price at closing on December 31, 2011. Additionally, there may be additional shares available on the market if we are required to file additional re-sale registration statements on Form S-1, including if MHR exercises its registration rights under its Registration Rights Agreement with the Company dated September 26, 2005. We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that resulted in the restatement of our financial statements. This material weakness could continue to adversely affect our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. The Company’s senior management is responsible for establishing and maintaining a system of internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our 2010 financial statements, management performed a reevaluation of our system of internal control over financial reporting for the quarterly periods ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2009 and 2010, and in our Annual Report for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the periods reported as a result of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, we concluded that the Company’s system of internal controls did not effectively ensure completeness and accuracy with regard to the proper recognition, presentation and disclosure of accounting for certain non-cash interest expense and debt discounts in connection the MHR Convertible Notes arising from the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Codification Topic 815-40-15-5, “Evaluating Whether an Instrument Is Considered Indexed to an Entity’s Own Stock” (“FASB ASC 815-40-15-5”) effective January 1, 2009. We have designed new procedures and controls intended to address the material weakness described above. However, we note that a system of procedures and controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any 30 Table of Contents such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Further and continued determinations that there are significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 