Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes could decline. You should consider the following risks before deciding to invest in, or maintain your investment in, our common stock or senior notes. Continuing unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The apparel and footwear industries have historically been subject to substantial cyclical variations. Our financial performance has been, and may continue to be, negatively affected by unfavorable economic conditions. Continued or further recessionary economic conditions as well as the current volatility and uncertainty concerning the euro may have a further adverse impact on our sales volumes, pricing levels and profitability. As domestic and international economic conditions change, trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and subject to reductions due to uncertainties about the future. When consumers reduce discretionary spending, purchases of specialty apparel and footwear, like our products, tend to decline which may result in reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, and/or unanticipated discounts. A continuation of the general reduction in consumer discretionary spending in the domestic and international economies, as well as the impact of tight credit markets on us, our suppliers, other vendors or customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents The apparel and footwear industries are each highly competitive, and if we fail to compete effectively, we could lose our market position. The apparel and footwear industries are each highly competitive. We compete against a number of domestic and international designers, manufacturers, retailers and distributors of apparel and footwear. In order to compete effectively, we must (1) maintain the image of our brands and our reputation for authenticity in our core boardriding markets; (2) be flexible and innovative in responding to rapidly changing market demands on the basis of brand image, style, performance and quality; and (3) offer consumers a wide variety of high quality products at competitive prices. The purchasing decisions of consumers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs and product design. A small number of our global competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including greater financial resources for competitive activities, such as sales, marketing, strategic acquisitions and athlete endorsements. The number of our direct competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other product lines or as other companies expand into our product lines. Our competitors may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions or prevent us from taking advantage of such combinations or alliances. Our competitors also may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, standards or consumer preferences. In addition, if our sponsored athletes terminate their relationships with us and endorse the products of our competitors, we may be unable to obtain endorsements from other comparable athletes. If we are unable to develop innovative and stylish products in response to rapid changes in consumer demands and fashion trends, we may suffer a decline in our revenues and market share. The apparel and footwear industries are subject to constantly and rapidly changing consumer demands based on fashion trends and performance features. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences in a timely manner while preserving the authenticity and image of our brands and the quality of our products. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new designs and products we may introduce is subject to uncertainty. In addition, we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured. If trends shift away from our products, or if we misjudge the market for our product lines, we may be faced with significant amounts of unsold inventory or other conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The failure of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could also adversely affect our business and the image of our brands. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to expand consumer demand. These requirements could strain our management, financial and operational resources. If we do not continue to develop stylish and innovative products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors, or if our future product lines misjudge consumer demands, we may lose consumer loyalty, which could result in a decline in our revenues and market share. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We maintain an inventory of selected products that we anticipate will be in high demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or the sale of excess inventory at discounted or closeout prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. 10 Table of Contents Difficulties in implementing our new global enterprise-wide reporting system (“ERP”) could impact our ability to design, produce and ship our products on a timely basis. We are in the process of implementing the SAP Apparel and Footwear Solution as our core operational and financial system. The ongoing implementation of the ERP is a key part of our continuing efforts to manage our business more effectively by eliminating redundancies and enhancing our overall cost structure and margin performance. Difficulties in shifting and integrating existing systems to this new ERP could impact our ability to design, produce and ship our products on a timely basis. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues and costs. We are exposed to gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relating to certain sales, royalty income, and product purchases of our international subsidiaries that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We are also exposed to foreign currency gains and losses resulting from U.S. transactions that are not denominated in U.S. dollars and to the current volatility and uncertainty concerning the euro. If we are unsuccessful in hedging these potential losses, our operating results could be negatively impacted and our cash flows could be significantly reduced. In some cases, as part of our risk management strategies, we may choose not to hedge such risks. If we misjudge these risks, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Furthermore, we are exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the reported results in our consolidated financial statements due to the translation of the statements of operations and balance sheets of our international subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. We may (but generally do not) use foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the profit and loss effects of this translation effect because such exposures are generally non-cash in nature and because accounting rules would require us to mark these contracts to fair value in the statement of operations at the end of each financial reporting period. We translate our revenues and expenses at average exchange rates during the period. As a result, the reported revenues and expenses of our international subsidiaries would decrease if the U.S. dollar increased in value in relation to other currencies, including the euro, Australian dollar or Japanese yen. In fiscal 2012, our cost of goods sold is expected to increase by 75 to 100 basis points as a percentage of revenues as a result of the lower value of the euro in comparison to rates that prevailed in fiscal 2011. Our debt obligations could limit our flexibility in managing our business and expose us to certain risks. Our degree of leverage may have negative consequences to us, including the following: • we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required interest and, where applicable, principal payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • we may be subject to credit reductions and other changes in our business relationships with our suppliers, vendors and customers if they perceive that we would be unable to pay our debts to them in a timely manner; • we have certain short term lines of credit in our Asia/Pacific segment subject to annual review, which we may be unable to extend at terms favorable to us, requiring the use of cash on hand or available credit; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors. 11 Table of Contents If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to our earnings. We may be required to record future impairments of goodwill to the extent the fair value of any of our reporting units is less than its carrying value. As of October 31, 2011, the fair values of the Americas, Europe and Asia/Pacific reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values. Our estimates of fair value are based on assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates of each reporting unit, discount rates applied to these cash flows and current market estimates of value. Based on the uncertainty of future growth rates and other assumptions used to estimate goodwill recoverability, future reductions in our expected cash flows could cause a material non-cash impairment charge of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The effects of war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other unforeseen wide-scale events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism has disrupted commerce and has intensified uncertainties in the U.S. and international economies. Any further acts of terrorism, a future war or a widespread natural disaster, such as the earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan, may disrupt commerce, undermine consumer confidence and lead to a further downturn in the U.S. or international economies, which could negatively impact our revenues. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any natural disaster that results in unforeseen interruptions of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain products from our manufacturers. Our success is dependent on our ability to protect our worldwide intellectual property rights, and our inability to enforce these rights could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, patents, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We rely on the intellectual property, patent, trademark and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. From time to time, we resort to litigation to protect these rights, and these proceedings can be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. We have obtained some U.S. and foreign trademarks, patents and service mark registrations, and have applied for additional ones, but cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. The loss of trademarks, patents and service marks, or the loss of the exclusive use of our trademarks, patents and service marks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and service marks on a worldwide basis and continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, patents and service marks, as appropriate. We cannot assure you that our actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks, patents and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violative of their trademark, patent or other proprietary rights. We may be subject to claims that our products have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign, discontinue or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain our endorsements by professional athletes, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to obtain endorsements from prominent athletes, which contribute to the authenticity and image of our brands. We believe that this strategy has been an effective means of gaining brand exposure worldwide and creating broad appeal for our products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain our existing relationships with these individuals in the future or that we will be able to attract new athletes to endorse our products. We also are subject to risks related to the selection of athletes whom we choose to endorse our products. We may select athletes who are unable to perform at expected levels or who are not sufficiently marketable. In addition, negative publicity concerning any of our athletes could harm our brand and adversely impact our business. If we are unable in the future to secure prominent athletes and arrange athlete endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion, which may not prove to be effective. In any event, our inability to obtain endorsements from professional athletes could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products, resulting in loss of revenues and a loss of profitability. The demand for our products is seasonal and sales can be dependent upon the weather. Our revenues and operating results are subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. These trends are dependent on many factors, including the holiday seasons, weather, consumer demand, markets in which we operate and numerous other factors beyond our control. The seasonality of our business, unseasonable weather during our peak selling periods and/or misjudgment in consumer demands could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Factors affecting international commerce and our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We generate the majority of our revenues from outside of the United States, and we anticipate that revenue from our international operations could account for an increasingly larger portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations are directly related to, and dependent on, the volume of international trade and foreign market conditions. International commerce and our international operations are subject to many risks, including: • recessions in foreign economies; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property or enforcing our intellectual property rights under the laws of other countries; • longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • social, political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in foreign tax rates; • tariffs and other trade barriers; and • U.S. government licensing requirements for exports. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks may restrict our ability to operate in the affected regions and decrease the profitability of our international operations, which may harm our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We have established, and may continue to establish, joint ventures in various foreign territories with independent third party business partners to distribute and sell Quiksilver, Roxy, DC and other branded products in such territories. These joint ventures are subject to substantial risks and liabilities associated with their operations, as well as the risk that our relationships with our joint venture partners do not succeed in the manner that we anticipate. If our joint venture operations, or our relationships with our joint venture partners, are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, as we continue to expand our overseas operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure our employees comply with these laws. If any of our overseas operations, or our employees or agents, violate such laws, we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the issuance of other equity securities, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the value of our senior notes. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our senior notes, our common stock, or both. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities, including the exercise and/or sale of the equity securities held by entities affiliated with Rhône Capital LLC, would have on the market price of our common stock or the value of our senior notes. Our industry is subject to pricing pressures that may adversely impact our financial performance. We source many of our products offshore because manufacturing costs are generally less, primarily due to lower labor costs. Many of our competitors also source their product requirements offshore to achieve lower costs, possibly in locations with lower costs than our offshore operations, and those competitors may use these cost savings to reduce prices. To remain competitive, we may be forced to adjust our prices from time to time in response to these industry-wide pricing pressures. Our financial performance may be negatively affected by these pricing pressures if: • we are forced to reduce our prices and we cannot reduce our production costs; or • our production costs increase and we cannot proportionately increase our prices. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of the fabrics or other raw materials used to manufacture our products could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or our ability to meet customer demands. The prices for such fabrics and other raw materials depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. In addition, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers has been increasing significantly and, as the middle class in developing countries continues to grow, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. The cost of logistics and transportation has been increasing as well, and, if the price of oil continues to increase, and as there continues to be significant unrest in the Middle East, it is unlikely that such cost pressure will abate. An increase in our costs of goods may have a negative affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainty of changing international trade regulations and quotas on imports of textiles and apparel may adversely affect our business. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently import raw materials and/or finished garments into the majority of countries in which we sell our products. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to customs duties. 14 Table of Contents In addition, the countries in which our products are manufactured or to which they are imported may from time to time impose additional new quotas, duties, tariffs, requirements as to where raw materials must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports, or otherwise adversely modify existing restrictions. Adverse changes in these costs and restrictions could harm our business. We rely on third-party manufacturers and problems with, or loss of, our suppliers or raw materials could harm our business and results of operations. Substantially all of our products are produced by independent manufacturers. We face the risk that these third-party manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis, or at all. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications and regulatory and customer requirements, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in materials and manufacturing costs or other business interruptions or failures due to deteriorating economies. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages or delays for certain products and harm our business. Our business may also be harmed by material increases to our cost of goods as a result of increasing labor costs, which manufacturers have recently faced. The capacity of our manufacturers to manufacture our products also is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials. Our manufacturers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could result in delays in deliveries of our products by our manufacturers or increased costs to us. Any shortage of raw materials or inability of a manufacturer to manufacture or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all, could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient, timely manner and could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our customers. As a result, we could experience cancellations of orders, refusals to accept deliveries or reductions in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. Employment related matters may affect our profitability. As of October 31, 2011, we had no unionized employees, but certain French employees are represented by workers’ councils. As we have little control over union activities, we could face difficulties in the future should our workforce become unionized. There can be no assurance that we will not experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future with our non-unionized employees or employees represented by workers’ councils. A privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. As part of our normal course of business, we, or service providers on our behalf, collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. Despite the security measures we, and our third party service providers, have in place, we may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 