ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, the statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements within this document. In addition, certain statements in future filings by Park with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of Park which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include: (i) projections of income or expense, earnings per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure and other financial items; (ii) statements of plans and objectives of Park or our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believes”, “anticipates”, “expects”, “intends”, “targeted”, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying those statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors and events identified below. There is also the risk that -25- Table of Contents Park’s management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and uncertainties or that the strategies Park develops to address them are unsuccessful. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except as may be required by law, Park undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Park or any person acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, investment securities and other interest earning assets and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and our borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and judgment. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. -26- Table of Contents Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio. In addition, we purchased loan participations from Vision Alabama and Vision Florida during the fourth quarter. The substantial majority of the loans made by Vision Alabama and Vision Florida are to individuals and businesses in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama and the Florida panhandle. Consequently, a significant decline in the economy in Ohio or in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama or the panhandle of Florida could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other local, regional and national service providers, including banks, savings associations, credit unions and other types of financial institutions, finance companies, insurance agencies and title agencies. Other competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, insurance companies and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors enjoy the benefits of advanced technology, fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. Many of the new competitors offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks and their subsidiaries may not have been able or legally permitted to offer their customers in the past. Our ability to maintain our history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area and on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. We are exposed to operational risk. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are -27- Table of Contents difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss of liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. It is impossible to predict the ultimate form any proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. Future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement could be materially adverse to our business and our shareholders. -28- Table of Contents Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, we could be required to remove the substances from and remediate the properties at our cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We have no prior operating experience in the Alabama and Florida markets in which Vision and its subsidiaries operate. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we and our subsidiaries operated 138 offices across 29 Ohio counties and one Kentucky county. The merger with Vision will result in the expansion of our banking operations into the Alabama and Florida markets currently served by Vision and its subsidiaries. We have no prior operating experience in these markets and, therefore, will rely to a large extent on the existing Boards of Directors and management of Vision and its subsidiaries with respect to the operation of Vision Alabama and Vision Florida after the merger. We, together with Vision Alabama and/or Vision Florida, as appropriate, entered into employment agreements with the following executive officers of Vision Alabama and Vision Florida: J. Daniel Sizemore, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Vision and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vision Alabama and Vision Florida; William E. Blackmon, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Vision and Vision Alabama; Andrew W. Braswell, Executive Vice President and Senior Lending Officer of Vision Alabama; Joey W. Ginn, President of Vision Florida; and Robert S. McKean, President of Vision Alabama; as well as seven other senior officers of Vision Alabama and Vision Florida. Each of these employment agreements, which will become effective at the effective time of the merger, continues the executive officer’s or employee’s employment relationship with Vision Alabama or Vision Florida, as applicable, after the effective time of the merger for at least a three-year term. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain the services of these executive officers and employees of Vision Alabama and Vision Florida, or that we will be able to successfully manage the operations of the Vision subsidiaries in the Alabama and Florida markets. We could experience difficulties in effectively integrating Vision and Anderson. We may not be able to achieve fully the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies in the merger with Vision. The costs or difficulties relating to the integration of Vision and its subsidiaries with our organization may be greater than expected or the cost savings or any revenue synergies of the combined organization may be lower or take longer to realize than expected. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of any acquired entity. In addition, the markets and industries in which we and Vision and our respective subsidiaries operate are highly competitive. We may lose our customers or the customers of Vision and its subsidiaries as a result of the merger. We may also lose key personnel as a result of the merger, -29- Table of Contents although we have entered into employment agreements with J. Daniel Sizemore and eleven other executive officers and employees of Vision Alabama and Vision Florida as described in the previous risk factor. These factors could contribute to our not fully achieving the expected benefits from the merger. Similarly, our recently completed acquisition of Anderson involves the same risks described above. Our business strategy includes growth plans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a profitable growth strategy. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if we grow more slowly than anticipated, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or that, after giving effect to the acquisition, we will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of goodwill and such other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. -30- Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of our most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses and the accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses, nor that we will not recognize a significant provision for impairment of our goodwill. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to the discussion of our “Critical Accounting Policies” included in the section of our 2006 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on pages 27 and 28. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. -31- Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Terrorism, acts of war or international conflicts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, including ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the United States. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including conflict in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 