ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, the statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements within this document. In addition, certain statements in future filings by Park with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of Park which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include: (i) projections of income or expense, earnings per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure and other financial items; (ii) statements of plans and objectives of Park or our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” -27- Table of Contents “targeted” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying those statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors and events identified below. There is also the risk that Park’s management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and uncertainties or that the strategies Park develops to address them are unsuccessful. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except as may be required by law, Park undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Park or any person acting on Park’s behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio and in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama and on the Florida panhandle. Consequently, a significant decline in the economy in Ohio or in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama or the panhandle of Florida could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced deteriorating credit conditions in the Ohio, Alabama and Florida markets in which we operate. Park had net loan charge-offs of $22.2 million for 2007 ($11.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2007) and recorded a provision for loan losses for 2007 of $29.5 million ($18.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2007). The provision for loan losses for 2006 was $3.9 million. Nonperforming loans, defined as loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, nonaccrual and renegotiated loans, were $108.5 million, or 2.57% of total loans, at December 31, 2007, compared to $32.9 million, or 0.95% of total loans, at December 31, 2006. Nonaccrual loans increased by $85.1 million during 2007, $43.1 million of the increase coming in the fourth quarter. -28- Table of Contents Of the nearly $26 million increase in the provision for loan losses in 2007, $19.4 million was associated with Vision Bank. Vision Bank had $8.6 million of net loan charge-offs in 2007. Our loan loss provision for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2007 exceeds the net loan charge-offs for the same period by $7.3 million reflecting the deterioration of credit quality within Vision Bank’s portfolio. Vision Bank’s nonperforming loans increased from $26.3 million in September 30, 2007 to $63.5 million at December 31, 2007, representing 9.93% of Vision Bank’s outstanding loans at December 31, 2007. Conditions in the State of Ohio also deteriorated during 2007. The provision for loan losses related to our Ohio-based subsidiary banks increased from $3.9 million in 2006 to $10.1 million in 2007. Our Ohio-based subsidiary banks had non-performing loans of $45.0 million at December 31, 2007, representing an increase of $12.1 million over the balance at December 31, 2006. It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in our markets will reverse and, therefore, Park’s future earnings are susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the markets in which we operate. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of our most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses and the accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses, nor that we will not recognize a significant provision for impairment of our goodwill. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to the discussion of our “Critical Accounting Policies” included in the section of our 2007 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on pages 22 and 23. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and the judgment of our loan officers and bank presidents. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessing the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. -29- Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, investment securities and other interest earning assets and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and our borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Information pertaining to the impact changes in interest rates could have on our net income is included in Table 11 in the section of Park’s 2007 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on page 31, and is incorporated herein by reference. We operate in extremely competitive markets, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market areas, we encounter significant competition from other local, regional and national service providers, including banks, savings associations, credit unions and other types of financial institutions, finance companies, insurance agencies and title agencies. Other competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, insurance companies and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Many of our competitors enjoy the benefits of advanced technology, fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. Many of the new competitors offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks and their subsidiaries may not have been able or legally permitted to offer their customers in the past. Our financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area and on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. -30- Table of Contents We have no prior operating experience in the Alabama and Florida markets in which Vision Bank operates. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Ohio-based bank subsidiaries operated 136 offices across 28 Ohio counties and one county in Northern Kentucky. Vision Bank operated, eight offices in one Alabama county and ten offices across six Florida counties. Our merger with Vision, which was effective as of 6:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, on March 9, 2007, resulted in the expansion of our banking operations into the Alabama and Florida markets served by Vision Bank. We have no prior operating experience in these markets and, therefore, have relied and will continue to rely to a large extent on the existing Board of Directors and management of Vision Bank with respect to its operations. We, together with Vision Bank, entered into employment agreements with the then executive officers of Vision Bank: J. Daniel Sizemore, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vision Bank; William E. Blackmon, Executive Vice President and Regional President of Vision Bank; Andrew W. Braswell, Executive Vice President and Senior Lending Officer of Vision Bank; Joey W. Ginn, President of Vision Bank; and Robert S. McKean, Executive Vice President of Vision Bank; as well as seven other senior officers of Vision. Each of these employment agreements, which became effective at the effective time of the Vision Merger, is to continue the executive officer’s or employee’s employment relationship with Vision Bank, after the effective time of the Vision Merger for at least a three-year term. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain the services of these executive officers and employees of Vision Bank, or that we will be able to successfully manage the operations of Vision Bank in the Alabama and Florida markets. Furthermore, on November 1, 2007, J. Daniel Sizemore and William E. Blackmon submitted their formal resignations to the Boards of Directors of Vision Bank and Park, to be effective November 30, 2007, in order to pursue opportunities with another bank headquartered in western Alabama (whose market does not overlap or compete with the markets that Vision Bank currently serves). Pursuant to their employment agreements, Mr. Sizemore and Mr. Blackmon voluntarily terminated their employment with Vision Bank, and, as a result, there were no severance payments made by Vision Bank or Park. Mr. Sizemore and Mr. Blackmon were entitled to the rights and benefits (if any) provided under plans and programs of Vision Bank, determined in accordance with the applicable terms and provisions of such plans and programs. On November 1, 2007, Joey W. Ginn was promoted to Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vision Bank. We believe that we can maintain our focus in the Florida and Alabama markets and that the remaining management team of Vision Bank is qualified to carry out our existing Vision Bank strategy. We may face risks and uncertainties as we convert our Ohio-based community banking subsidiaries and divisions to one operating system and combine their charters. On July 30, 2007, we announced our intention to consolidate the banking operations of our eight subsidiary banks located in Ohio under one charter — that of Park National Bank, which will remain a national bank. In addition, we will create a single operating system for our 12 Ohio-based community banking subsidiaries and divisions, which will operate as divisions of Park National Bank. Each community bank division will retain its local leadership, local decision-making and unique local identity. We anticipate that a single charter and common operating system will ease complex reporting procedures, reduce time and money spent on duplicated efforts, enhance risk management and strengthen each bank’s ability to provide more rapid responses and high-quality -31- Table of Contents services. As we proceed with the combination of charters and conversions to one operation system, we will face risks and uncertainties which must be addressed. These risks and uncertainties include, but may not be limited to: (i) difficulties we may encounter in the consolidation of the charters of our eight Ohio-based subsidiary banks with respect to product offerings, customer service, customer retention, reporting and enterprise risk management systems and realizing the anticipated operating efficiencies; and (ii) the loss of key employees as we proceed with the consolidation. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could require further charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Under current accounting standards, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) require a company to perform an impairment test on goodwill annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired, by comparing the fair value of such goodwill to its recorded or carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the fair value, an impairment loss must be recorded in an amount equal to the excess. GAAP does not permit a subsequent increase in goodwill if future valuations indicate an increase in the fair value of the acquired assets. Park acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock and outstanding stock options held by Vision shareholders and option holders for $171.1 million, including $87.8 million in cash and $83.3 million in Park common shares. Total intangible assets recognized by Park as a result of the acquisition were $121.7 million, consisting of $109.0 million of goodwill and $12.7 million in core deposit intangibles. The core deposit intangible balance continues to be amortized over six years and had a balance of $11.0 million at December 31, 2007. The increase in nonperforming loans at Vision Bank during the fourth quarter of 2007 coupled with the deteriorating credit markets in Florida and Alabama triggered Park’s management to perform a valuation of the fair value of the assets of Vision Bank. Based on this estimate, Park recorded a reduction in goodwill and associated charge to earnings of $54 million as of December 31, 2007. It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in the markets served by Vision Bank will reverse and, therefore, further assessments of the goodwill associated with Vision Bank for impairment may be triggered. We are exposed to operational risk. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative -32- Table of Contents public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to potential litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss of liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. It is impossible to predict -33- Table of Contents the ultimate form that any proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. Future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement could be materially adverse to our business and our shareholders. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, we could be required to remove the hazardous substances from and remediate the properties at our cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our -34- Table of Contents vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability or disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Terrorism, acts of war or international conflicts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, including ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the United States. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including conflict in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 