ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, the statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements within this document. In addition, certain statements in future filings by Park with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of Park which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include: (i) projections of income or expense, earnings per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure and other financial items; (ii) statements of plans and objectives of Park or our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “targeted” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying those statements. -29- The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors and events identified below. There is also the risk that Park’s management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and uncertainties or that the strategies Park develops to address them are unsuccessful. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except as may be required by law, Park undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Park or any person acting on Park’s behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. Our business may be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets, the real estate market and economic conditions generally. Negative developments in the capital markets beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing into 2010 produced uncertainty in the financial markets and a related economic downturn. Dramatic declines in the housing market, which resulted in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets started in the sub-prime market but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by some financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly and many financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. Also, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. -30- Through much of 2009, the United States remained in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A worsening of current conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our markets. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. A default by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect our business. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets experienced volatility and disruption for more than a year. The volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on share prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and capital, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. Our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in Ohio and in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama and on the Florida panhandle and our success depends on the general economic conditions of these areas, particularly given that a significant portion of our lending relates to real estate located in these regions. Real estate values in these Ohio and, more dramatically, Gulf Coast communities have been negatively impacted by the severity of the economic conditions. Additional adverse changes in regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and sell collateral for loans upon foreclosure, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for our products and services and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate values, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. -31- We continue to experience difficult credit conditions, especially in the Florida and Alabama markets in which we operate. Vision Bank had $28.9 million in net loan charge-offs for 2009 ($9.8 for the fourth quarter of 2009) and recorded a provision for loan losses for 2009 of $44 million ($16.0 million for the fourth quarter of 2009). Park’s nonperforming loans (defined as loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, nonaccrual loans and renegotiated loans still accruing interest) were $248.5 million or 5.4% of loans at December 31, 2009 and $167.8 million or 3.7% of loans at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, Vision Bank had nonperforming loans of $159.6 million or 23.6% of loans compared to $94.7 million or 13.7% of loans at December 31, 2008. While we continue to generate net earnings on a consolidated basis, Vision Bank continues to generate net losses and may generate net losses in the future. Excluding the goodwill impairment charges of $55.0 million in 2008, Vision Bank had net losses of $30.1 million in 2009 and $26.2 million in 2008. Park contributed $37.0 million to the capital of Vision Bank in 2009 and $50.0 million in 2008. Given the current economic environment in Vision Bank’s market, Park has agreed to maintain the leverage ratio at Vision Bank at 10% and to maintain the total risk-based capital ratio at 14%. It remains uncertain when the negative credit trends in our markets will reverse. As a result, Park’s future earnings, cash flows and capital continue to be susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the markets in which we operate. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse affect on our earnings. During 2008 and 2009, there were higher levels of bank failures which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC voted on December 16, 2008 to increase assessment rates of insured depository institutions uniformly by 7 basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits), beginning with the first quarter of 2009. Additional changes, beginning April 1, 2009, were to require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. The EESA instituted two temporary programs effective through December 31, 2009 to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and noninterest bearing transactional accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage). On May 20, 2009, President Obama signed into law the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 (the “HFSTHA”) which, among other things, amended the EESA to extend the effectiveness of these temporary programs through December 31, 2013. On January 1, 2014, the standard insurance amount will return to $100,000 per depositor for all account categories except IRAs and certain other retirement accounts, which will remain at $250,000 per depositor. -32- On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment for the second quarter of 2009 of 5 basis points on each insured depositary institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment for Park was $3.1 million. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments for these periods were collected on December 30, 2009, along with the regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, the prepaid assessment rate was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect for the institution on September 30, 2009, was in effect for the entire third quarter of 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased annual assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. As a result, an institution’s total base assessment rate for purposes of estimating an institution’s assessment for 2011 and 2012 was increased by 3 basis points. Each institution’s prepaid assessment base was calculated using its third quarter 2009 assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated five percent annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Park paid $29.7 million for the three-year prepayment in December 2009, which will be expensed over three years. In January 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rule-making asking for comments on how the FDIC’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment system could be changed to include the risks of certain employee compensation as criteria in the assessment system. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares and restrictions on compensation paid to our executive officers and certain other most highly-compensated employees. We participate in the CPP. For more information regarding our participation in the CPP, see the discussion under the caption “Recent Developments — Participation in Capital Purchase Program Enacted as part of Troubled Assets Relief Program” in “Item 1 — Business” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. To finalize Park’s participation in the CPP, Park and the U.S. Treasury entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, Park issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury (i) 100,000 Series A Preferred Shares and (ii) the Warrant, for an aggregate purchase price of $100.0 million in cash. The Securities Purchase Agreement limits our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on Common Shares, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our Common Shares above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per Common Share declared prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.94 per Common Share) without the U.S. Treasury’s approval until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The consent of the U.S. Treasury generally is required for us to make any share repurchase (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice and certain other limited circumstances specified in our Articles of Incorporation) until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, Common Shares, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A Preferred Share dividends. -33- As a recipient of government funding under the CPP, we, together with our subsidiaries, must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA and the standards established by the Secretary of the Treasury under the ARRA (including the Interim Final Rule) for so long as the U.S. Treasury holds any securities acquired from us pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the Warrant, excluding any period during which the U.S. Treasury holds only the Warrant (the “Covered Period”). The ARRA and the Interim Final Rule impose limitations on our executive compensation practices by, among other things: (i) limiting the deductibility, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of compensation paid to any of our Senior Executive Officers (as defined in the Interim Final Rule) to $500,000 per year; (ii) prohibiting the payment or accrual of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation to our five most highly-compensated employees, except in the form and under the limited circumstances permitted by the Interim Final Rule; (iii) prohibiting the payment of golden parachute payments (as defined in the Interim Final Rule) to our Senior Executive Officers or any of our next five most highly-compensated employees upon a departure from Park and our subsidiaries or due to a change in control of Park, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) requiring Park or the applicable subsidiary to “claw back” any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a Senior Executive Officer or any of our next 20 most highly-compensated employees if the payment was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (v) prohibiting Park and our subsidiaries from maintaining any Employee Compensation Plan (as defined in the Interim Final Rule) that would encourage the manipulation of our reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of our employees; (vi) prohibiting Park and our subsidiaries from maintaining compensation plans and arrangements for our Senior Executive Officers that encourage our Senior Executive Officers to take unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of Park; (vii) requiring Park and our subsidiaries to limit any Employee Compensation Plan that unnecessarily exposes Park to risk; (viii) prohibiting Park and our subsidiaries from providing (formally or informally) “gross-ups” to any of our Senior Executive Officers or our 20 next most highly-compensated employees; (ix) requiring that Park disclose to the U.S. Treasury and Park’s primary regulator the amount, nature and justification for offering to any of our five most highly-compensated employees any perquisites whose total value exceeds $25,000; (x) requiring that Park disclose to the U.S. Treasury and Park’s primary regulator whether Park, the Park Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee engaged a compensation consultant and the services performed by that compensation consultant and any of its affiliates; (xi) requiring that Park disclose to the U.S. Treasury the identity of our Senior Executive Officers and 20 next most highly-compensated employees, identified by name and title and ranked in descending order of annual compensation; and (xii) subjecting any bonus, retention award or other compensation paid before February 17, 2009 to our Senior Executive Officers or our 20 next most highly-compensated employees to retroactive review by the U.S. Treasury to determine whether any such payments were inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to the public interest. The ARRA and the Interim Final Rule also required that the Park Board of Directors adopt a Company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures,” which was adopted on September 4, 2009, and post this policy on Park’s Internet Web site. -34- Restrictions on compensation may make it more difficult for us to hire or retain personnel, which might adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, investment securities and other interest earning assets and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and our borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Information pertaining to the impact changes in interest rates could have on our net income is included in Table 10 in the section of Park’s 2009 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on page 43, is incorporated herein by reference. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, government has intervened on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the trading price of our Common Shares. -35- Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry have been introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States, are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see the discussion under the caption “Supervision and Regulation of Park and its Subsidiaries” in “Item 1 — Business” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and the judgment of our loan officers and bank division presidents. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessing the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As we experience loan losses, particularly at Vision Bank, additional capital may need to be infused. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on our financial performance, conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. -36- Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; the credit history of a particular borrower; changes in economic and industry conditions; and the duration of the loan. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. During the fourth quarter of 2009, management of Park made a change in accounting estimate (as defined under GAAP) for the calculation of the allowance for loan losses. Based on escalating losses within the Commercial Land and Development (“CL&D”) loan portfolio of Vision Bank, management of Park determined that it was necessary to segregate this portion of the portfolio for both impaired credits, as well as those CL&D loans that were still accruing at December 31, 2009. From the date Park acquired Vision Bank (March 9, 2007) through December 31, 2009, Vision Bank has had cumulative charge-offs within the CL&D portfolio of $51.3 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2009, management of Park established a specific reserve of $21.7 million related to those CL&D loans at Vision Bank that are deemed to be impaired. Vision Bank had $132.8 million of performing CL&D loans at December 31, 2009. Additionally, Park National Bank had $21.3 million of loan participations related to CL&D loans originated by Vision Bank. Management expects the loan loss provision for 2010 will be approximately $45 million to $55 million. This estimate reflects management’s expectation that: (1) future declines in collateral values will be moderate as the economy continues to improve and pricing stabilizes through 2010 and (2) new nonperforming loans, specifically new nonperforming CL&D loans at Vision Bank, will decline in 2010. As discussed under the caption “Credit Experience” in the section of our 2009 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on pages 40 through 42, Vision Bank’s performing CL&D loan portfolio has declined significantly over the past two years. For more information on these estimates, refer to the discussion of our “Critical Accounting Policies” included in the section of our 2009 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on pages 32 and 33. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. -37- In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by governmental regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to potential litigation and regulatory action. Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. -38- We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. The risk of litigation increases in times of increased troubled loan collection activity. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. As a bank holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries and affiliates. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our Common Shares and service our debt is dividends from these subsidiaries. In the event our subsidiaries become unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares or our Common Shares. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -39- Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our banking and other subsidiaries may pay to us without regulatory approval. Our banking subsidiaries generally may not, without prior regulatory approval, pay a dividend in an amount greater than their undivided profits. In addition, the prior approval of the OCC is required for the payment of a dividend by Park National Bank if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two preceding years. The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Thus, the ability of Park National Bank to pay dividends in the future is currently influenced, and could be further influenced, by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines and may restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if Park’s banking subsidiaries became “under-capitalized” for purposes of the applicable “prompt corrective action” regulations. “Under-capitalized” is currently defined as having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. Throughout 2008 and 2009, Park’s banking subsidiaries were in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements and had sufficient capital under the “prompt corrective action” regulations to be deemed “well-capitalized.” Vision Bank is not currently permitted to pay dividends to us and we can provide no assurances regarding if or when Vision Bank will be permitted to begin paying dividends to us again. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, the direct creditors of that subsidiary will have a prior claim on that subsidiary’s assets. Our rights and the rights of our creditors will be subject to that prior claim, unless we are also a direct creditor of that subsidiary. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us. Any security breach involving confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability or disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a number of derivative transactions. Many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. We carry borrowings which contain embedded derivatives. These borrowing arrangements require that we deliver underlying securities to the counterparty as collateral. If market interest rates were to decline, we may be required to deliver more securities to the counterparty. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the counterparties and are therefore susceptible to credit and operational risk in these situations. -40- Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and, in the event of a default, may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. Any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other over-the-counter derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 