ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, the statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements within this document. In addition, certain statements in future filings by Park with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of Park which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include: (i) projections of income or expense, earnings per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure and other financial items; (ii) statements of plans and objectives of Park or our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services; (iii) statements of future economic performance; and (iv) statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “targeted” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying those statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors and events identified below. There is also the risk that Park’s management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and uncertainties or that the strategies Park develops to address them are unsuccessful. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except as may be required by law, Park undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Park or any person acting on Park’s behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. -27- Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Negative developments in the capital markets beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing throughout 2008 and into 2009 produced uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn. Dramatic declines in the housing market, that resulted in decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. The declines in the performance and value of mortgage assets started in the sub-prime market but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, leveraged bank loans and nearly all other asset classes, including equity securities. These general downward economic trends, the reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have all negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit and resulted in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly and financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Also, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased governmental action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As of the end of 2008, the United States is in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A worsening of current conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. -28- Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local and national, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. The substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Ohio and in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama and on the Florida panhandle. Consequently, further significant declines in the economy in Ohio or in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama or the panhandle of Florida could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced deteriorating credit conditions in the Ohio, Alabama and Florida markets in which we operate. Park had net loan charge-offs of $57.5 million for 2008 ($21.7 million for the fourth quarter of 2008) and recorded a provision for loan losses for 2008 of $70.5 million ($32.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2008). The provision for loan losses for 2007 was $29.5 million. Nonperforming loans, defined as loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, nonaccrual and renegotiated loans, were $167.8 million, or 3.74% of total loans, at December 31, 2008, compared to $108.5 million, or 2.57% of total loans, at December 31, 2007. Nonaccrual loans increased by $58.4 million during 2008, $33.2 million of the increase coming in the fourth quarter. Of the nearly $41 million increase in the provision for loan losses in 2008, $27.5 million was associated with Vision Bank. Vision Bank had $38.5 million of net loan charge-offs in 2008. Vision Bank’s loan loss provision for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2008 exceeds the net loan charge-offs for the same period in 2008 by $8.4 million reflecting the deterioration of credit quality within Vision Bank’s portfolio. Vision Bank’s nonperforming loans increased from $79.3 million in September 30, 2008 to $94.7 million at December 31, 2008, representing 13.7% of Vision Bank’s outstanding loans at December 31, 2008. Conditions in the State of Ohio also deteriorated during 2008. The provision for loan losses related to Park National Bank (and our Ohio-based subsidiary banks which merged into it) and Guardian Finance increased from $10.1 million in 2007 to $23.5 million in 2008. Park National Bank and its divisions had non-performing loans of $73.1 million at December 31, 2008, representing an increase of $28.1 million over the balance at December 31, 2007. It is uncertain when the negative credit trends in our markets will reverse and, therefore, Park’s future earnings are susceptible to further declining credit conditions in the markets in which we operate. -29- We extend credit to a variety of customers based on internally set standards and the judgment of our loan officers and bank presidents. We manage the credit risk through a program of underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions and an on-going process of assessing the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit standards and on-going process of credit assessment might not protect us from significant credit losses. We take credit risk by virtue of making loans and leases, extending loan commitments and letters of credit and, to a lesser degree, purchasing non-governmental securities. Our exposure to credit risk is managed through the use of consistent underwriting standards that emphasize “in-market” lending while avoiding highly leveraged transactions as well as excessive industry and other concentrations. Our credit administration function employs risk management techniques to ensure that loans and leases adhere to corporate policy and problem loans and leases are promptly identified. While these procedures are designed to provide us with the information needed to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue credit risk. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -30- Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest rate spread, which is the difference between (i) the rates we earn on loans, investment securities and other interest earning assets and (ii) the interest rates we pay on deposits and our borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. Information pertaining to the impact changes in interest rates could have on our net income is included in Table 10 in the section of Park’s 2008 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on page 41, and is incorporated herein by reference. There can be no assurance that recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions will stabilize the United States banking system and the enactment of these initiatives may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity or stock price. In 2008 and continuing into 2009, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The EESA authorizes the U.S. Treasury to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies, under TARP. The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the United States banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the Capital Purchase Program, which we participate in, the U.S. Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. For more information regarding our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, see the discussion under the caption “Recent Developments — Participation in Capital Purchase Program Enacted as part of Troubled Assets Relief Program” in “Item 1 — Business” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our Common Shares. The EESA and the ARRA followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, the United States Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown that began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. -31- Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executive officers. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our Common Shares, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our Common Shares above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.94 per share) without the U.S. Treasury’s approval until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The consent of the U.S. Treasury generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Series A Preferred Shares or purchases of junior preferred shares or Common Shares in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, our Common Shares, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A Preferred Share dividends. As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the U.S. Treasury holds any securities acquired from us pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the Warrant, excluding any period during which the U.S. Treasury holds only the Warrant. These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for Senior Executive Officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten Park’s value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a Senior Executive Officer or any of our 20 next most highly-compensated employees based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executive Officers and our five next most highly-compensated employees, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to its five most highly-compensated employees or such higher number as the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may determine is in the public interest, except for grants of restricted stock that do not fully vest during the Covered Period and do not have a value which exceeds one-third of an employee’s total annual compensation; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the U.S. Treasury finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of TARP otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a nonbinding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the Senior Executive Officers in excess of $500,000 per year. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. These standards are more stringent than those currently in effect under the Capital Purchase Program and the Securities Purchase Agreement or those previously proposed by the U.S. Treasury. However, it is still unclear how these standards will relate to the similar standards announced by the U.S. Treasury in the guidelines it issued on February 4, 2009, or whether the standards will be considered effective immediately or only after the U.S. Treasury adopts implementing regulations. -32- Future sales of our Common Shares or other securities may dilute the value of our Common Shares, which may adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares or the Series A Preferred Shares. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities, including Common Shares authorized and unissued under our stock option plans or additional shares of preferred stock. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance would dilute the percentage of ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the per share value of the Common Shares or the Series A Preferred Shares. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. The Series A Preferred Shares impact net income available to holders of our Common Shares and earnings per Common Share, and the Warrant we issued to the U.S. Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our Common Shares. While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program provides further funding to our business and we believe has improved investor perceptions with regard to our financial position, it has increased our equity and the number of actual and diluted outstanding Common Shares as well as our preferred dividend requirements. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A Preferred Shares will reduce the net income available to holders of our Common Shares and our earnings per Common Share. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our Common Shares will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the U.S. Treasury of the Series A Preferred Shares is exercised. The Common Shares underlying the Warrant represent approximately 1.60% of our Common Shares outstanding as of February 13, 2009 (including the Common Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total Common Shares outstanding). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the Common Shares it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any Common Shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. -33- We operate in extremely competitive markets, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market areas, we encounter significant competition from other local, regional and national service providers, including banks, savings associations, credit unions and other types of financial institutions, finance companies, insurance agencies and title agencies. Other competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, insurance companies and financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. The increasingly competitive environment primarily results from changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. In 2008, the pace of consolidation among financial service providers accelerated considerably, as several major United States financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial government assistance or were placed into conservatorship by the United States Federal Government. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. Many of our competitors enjoy the benefits of advanced technology, fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. Many of our new competitors also offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks and their subsidiaries may not have been able or legally permitted to offer their customers in the past. Our financial performance and return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas and on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see the discussion under the caption “Competition” in “Item 1 — Business” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in the general economic conditions in our primary market areas could adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in Ohio and in Gulf Coast communities in Alabama and on the Florida panhandle and our success depends on the general economic conditions of these areas. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosures, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for our products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. -34- Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to utilize alternative methods to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have limited operating experience in the Alabama and Florida markets in which Vision Bank operates. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Park National Bank operated 128 offices across 29 Ohio counties and one county in Northern Kentucky. Vision Bank operated eight offices in one Alabama county and ten offices across six Florida counties. The Vision Merger resulted in the expansion of our banking operations into the Alabama and Florida markets served by Vision Bank. We had no operating experience in the markets served by Vision Bank before the Vision Merger and, therefore, have relied and will continue to rely to a large extent on the existing Board of Directors and management of Vision Bank with respect to its operations. We believe that we can maintain our focus in the Florida and Alabama markets and that the management team of Vision Bank is qualified to carry out our existing Vision Bank strategy. We may face risks and uncertainties as we convert Park National Bank and its divisions to one operating system. On July 30, 2007, we announced our intent to consolidate the banking operations of our eight subsidiary banks located in Ohio under one charter — that of Park National Bank, which would remain a national bank. In 2008, the 12 Ohio-based community banking subsidiaries and divisions of Park’s subsidiary banks were merged into the one charter and become divisions of Park National Bank. Since the mergers, each community banking division has retained its local leadership, local decision-making and unique local identity. In connection with the consolidation, we are also implementing a single operating system for the 12 divisions of Park National Bank. We anticipate that a single charter and common operating system will ease complex reporting procedures, reduce time and money spent on duplicated efforts, enhance risk management and strengthen Park National Bank’s ability to provide more rapid responses and high-quality services. As we proceed with the conversion to one operating system, we will face risks and uncertainties which must be addressed. These risks and uncertainties include, but may not be limited to: (i) difficulties we may encounter with respect to product offerings, customer service, customer retention, reporting and enterprise risk management systems and realizing the anticipated operating efficiencies; and (ii) the loss of key employees as we proceed with the consolidation. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for loan losses. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, refer to the discussion of our “Critical Accounting Policies” included in the section of our 2008 Annual Report captioned “FINANCIAL REVIEW” on pages 32 and 33. -35- Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; the credit history of a particular borrower; changes in economic and industry conditions; and the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to operational risk. Similar to any large organization, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to potential litigation and regulatory action. -36- Given the volume of transactions we process, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process our transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact us or the businesses in which we are engaged. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us or our ability to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies against us could cause us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us and our shareholders. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, government has intervened on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the price of our Common Shares. -37- Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see the discussion under the caption “Supervision and Regulation of Park and its Subsidiaries” in “Item 1 — Business” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. We may be a defendant from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in the future in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the course of our business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, commercial properties securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on those properties. In this event, we could be required to remove the hazardous substances from and remediate the properties at our cost and expense. The cost of removal and environmental remediation could be substantial. We may not have adequate remedies against the owners of the properties or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. -38- We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for substantially all of our revenue. We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from our subsidiaries. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that our subsidiaries may pay to us. In the event our subsidiaries become unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares or our Common Shares. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could severely harm our business. As part of our financial institution business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of our subsidiaries and other third parties. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by us or by our vendors, could severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability or disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to grow may be limited if we cannot make acquisitions. As part of an effort to fully deploy our capital and to increase our loans and deposits, we may continue to acquire other financial institutions, financial services companies or branches. We compete with other financial institutions with respect to proposed acquisitions. We cannot predict if or when we will be able to identify and attract acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we incur risks and challenges associated with the integration of acquired institutions in a timely and efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving anticipated operating efficiencies. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to a number of derivative transactions. Many of these derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. We carry borrowings which contain embedded derivatives. These borrowing arrangements require that we deliver underlying securities to the counterparty as collateral. If market interest rates were to decline, we may be required to deliver more securities to the counterparty. We are dependent on the creditworthiness of the counterparties and are therefore susceptible to credit and operational risk in these situations. -39- Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. Any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform for credit derivatives and other over-the-counter derivative contracts, or a market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk associated with such transactions, but under certain circumstances could also limit our ability to develop derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and ourselves and adversely affect our profitability. Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect our business. Terrorism, acts of war or international conflicts could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, including ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the United States. If terrorist activity, acts of war or other international hostilities cause an overall economic decline, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or acts of war, including conflict in the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. -40- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 