Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that the Company files with the SEC are risks that should be considered in evaluating the Company’s stock, as well as risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual future results of the Company to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other public statements the Company makes. Additionally, because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, the Company’s past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance. Company Risks Intellectual property and proprietary technology are important to the continued success of the Company’s business. Failure to protect or defend this proprietary technology may impair the Company’s competitive position. The Company’s success and ability to compete depend to a certain extent on the Company’s innovative proprietary technology since that is one of the methods by which the Company persuades customers to buy its products, both present and future. The Company currently relies on copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and patents to protect its innovative proprietary technologies. The Company may have to engage in litigation to protect patents and other intellectual property rights, or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights claimed by others. This kind of litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, regardless of whether the Company wins or loses. Because it is important to the Company’s success that the Company is able to prevent competitors from copying the Company’s innovations, the Company will usually seek patent and trade secret protection for the Company’s technologies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and the Company cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient strength and scope to provide it with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company’s technology or design around the Company’s patents. The Company also relies on trade secret protection for its technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with the Company’s employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and if they are, depending upon the circumstance, the Company may not have adequate remedies. In any case, others may come to know about the Company’s trade secrets in various ways. In addition, 4 Table of Contents the laws of some countries in which the Company manufactures or sells products may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Despite the Company’s efforts, intellectual property rights, particularly existing or future patents, may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable or infringed or required to be licensed to others. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the Company’s, duplicate or reverse engineer the Company’s technology or design around patents owned or licensed by the Company. If the Company fails to protect its technology so that others may not use or copy it, the Company would be less able to differentiate its products and revenues could decline. The Company’s operating results are subject to fluctuations from period-to-period, which could cause it to miss expectations about these results and, consequently, could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s stock. The results of the Company’s operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. The Company’s operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of factors such as the impact of continuing economic difficulties, increased competition in the printing equipment industry, the introduction and market acceptance of new and alternative printing and information distribution technologies and standards, changes in general economic conditions and changes in economic conditions specific to the Company’s industry. Further, the Company’s revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of, among other factors, the timing of shipments by customers, changes in demand and mix for the Company’s products and consumables, and the timing of new product announcements and releases by the Company or its competitors. Finally, the operating results of the Company are dependent upon management’s ability to control manufacturing costs as well as operating expenses in view of the Company’s business environment. The Company relies on subcontractors to help manufacture its products and if they are unable to adequately supply components and products, the Company may be unable to deliver products to customers on time or without defects. The Company employs a number of unaffiliated subcontractors to manufacture components for the Company’s products. Because the Company relies on subcontractors, however, the Company cannot be sure that it will be able to maintain an adequate supply of components or products. Moreover, the Company cannot be sure that the components the Company purchases will satisfy the Company’s quality standards and be delivered on time. The Company’s business could suffer if it fails to maintain its relationships with its subcontractors or fails to develop sufficient alternative sources for its purchased components. The Company’s business is subject to risks as a result of its international operations. A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted internationally. Accordingly, future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, regulatory, political and economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, business and government spending patterns, and natural disasters. Because the Company generates revenues and expenses in various currencies, including the U.S. dollar, euro, Swedish krona and Japanese yen, the Company’s financial results are subject to the effects of fluctuations of currency exchange rates. The Company cannot predict, however, when exchange rates or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could impact the Company’s business. Any or all of these factors could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s growth strategy may include alliances and/or licenses or acquisitions of technologies or businesses, which entail a number of risks. As part of the Company’s strategy to grow its business, the Company may pursue alliances and/or licenses of technologies from third parties or acquisitions of complementary product lines or companies, and such transactions could entail a number of risks. The Company may expend significant costs in investigating and pursuing such transactions, and such transactions may not be consummated. If such transactions are consummated, the Company may not be successful in integrating the acquired technology or business into the Company’s existing business to achieve the desired synergies. Integrating acquired technologies or businesses may also require a substantial commitment of the Company’s management’s time and attention. The Company may expend significant funds to implement an alliance and/or acquire such technologies or businesses, and may incur unforeseen liabilities in connection with any alliance and/or acquisition of a technology or business. Any of the foregoing risks could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial conditions. The Company’s ability to maintain its competitive position depends to a certain extent on the efforts and abilities of its senior management and the ability to attract highly skilled employees. The Company’s senior management possesses significant managerial, technical and other expertise in the printing industry. Their expertise would be difficult to quickly replace, and if the Company loses the services of one or more of its executive officers, or if one or more of them decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with the Company, the Company’s business could be seriously harmed. In addition, the Company’s ability to develop, market and sell its products and services and to maintain its competitive position depends on its ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, sales and marketing and other personnel. If the Company fails to recruit these personnel, its ability to develop new products and provide service could suffer. 5 Table of Contents Reliance on significant customers. In fiscal 2010, the Company had one significant customer that individually accounted for 14% of net sales. The Company anticipates, but cannot assure, that this customer will continue to be significant in fiscal 2011. The loss of, or a significant decrease in sales to, this customer would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. In addition, the Company’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 39% of the Company’s net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. Banking and financing relationships. The Company’s continued effective operating presence in the marketplace is dependent upon its financing arrangements with its banks. The Company cannot predict if those relationships will always be supportive. Industry Risks If the United States and other significant global economies remain in recession, the demand for the Company’s products could remain lower and the Company’s revenue may be materially adversely affected. The demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. For example, general economic conditions may affect or delay expenditures for advertising and printing, which may in turn affect the overall capital spending by publishers and printers, particularly for capital equipment such as printing presses. If, as a result of general economic uncertainty or otherwise, companies reduce their capital spending levels, such a decrease in spending could reduce demand for the Company’s products and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Since 2008, financial markets throughout the world have been experiencing disruption, including volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions. These developments and the continuing economic downturn have and will adversely impact the Company’s business and financial condition in a number of ways, including impacts beyond those typically associated with other recent downturns in the U.S. and foreign economies. As the slowdown continues, reduced capital spending by OEMs and end users has already adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the Company’s product sales. The impact from the slowdown could necessitate further testing for impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets, and long-lived assets and may negatively impact the valuation allowance with respect to the Company’s deferred tax assets. In addition, cost reduction actions may be necessary which would lead to additional restructuring charges. As credit in financial markets tightens, the general economic downturn has adversely affected the ability of the Company’s customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases. The tightening could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for the Company’s products and services, could negatively impact the Company’s ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required, and in the event of continued contraction in the Company’s sales, could lead to dated inventory and require additional reserves for obsolescence. The Company may not be able to adequately respond to changes in technology affecting the printing industry. The Company’s continuing product development efforts have focused on refining and improving the performance of the Company’s products as they relate to printing, and the Company anticipates that it will continue to focus its efforts in this area. The printing and publishing industry has been characterized in recent years by rapid and significant technological changes and frequent new product introductions. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced products with new features or with features incorporating the Company’s technologies which could render the Company’s technologies obsolete or less marketable. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, on the Company’s ability to: • use leading technologies effectively; • continue to develop the Company’s technical expertise and patented position; • enhance the Company’s current products and develop new products that meet changing customer needs; • time new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; • adjust the prices of the Company’s existing products to increase customer demand; • successfully advertise and market the Company’s products; • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes; and • adjust products and services to accommodate substitution of non-traditional digital technologies for traditional print on paper. The Company may not be successful in effectively using new technologies, developing new products or enhancing its existing products and technology on a timely basis. The Company’s new technologies or enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. The Company’s pursuit of new technologies may require substantial time and expense. The Company may need to license new 6 Table of Contents technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to the Company on terms that the Company can accept. Finally, the Company may not succeed in adapting the Company’s products to new technologies as they emerge. Any of these factors, either individually or collectively, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operation. Investment Risks Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect the Company’s ability to report its financial condition and results of operations accurately or on a timely basis. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could harm its business and the trading price of its stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to periodically evaluate the design and effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and assess the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. Management has concluded that internal controls and procedures over financial reporting were effective as to design and effectiveness as of June 30, 2010. Management has further concluded that the identified and reported material weakness as of June 30, 2009 has been effectively remediated. Failure to maintain existing effective controls could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and stock price. For a more detailed discussion of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, see Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s stock price has been and could continue to be volatile. The market price of the Company’s stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The securities markets have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s stock without regard to the Company’s operating performance. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: • actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; • significant announcements by industry participants; • changes in national or regional economic conditions; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates for the Company, the Company’s competitors or the Company’s industry, or the Company’s failure to meet analysts’ expectations; and • general market conditions. These factors may materially and adversely affect the Company’s stock price, regardless of the Company’s operating performance. Risks associated with indebtedness The Company has indebtedness. As of June 30, 2010, the Company’s total indebtedness was $20,980,000 including $13,933,000 under its secured credit facility. Borrowings under the Company’s Credit Agreement are secured by the assets of the Company. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to satisfy certain financial covenants. At June 30, 2010, the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants contained in its Credit Agreement pursuant to the terms of the Waiver and Amendment No. 7 to the Credit Agreement dated June 9, 2010. On September 28, 2010, the Company entered into Amendment #8 to the Credit Agreement (the “Amendment #8”) with Bank of America. The terms of the Amendment #8 provide covenants through the term of the Credit Agreement. The Company expects to be in compliance with the covenants in the Amendment #8, but a decline in the Company’s financial performance could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the Company’s ability to retain its existing financing or obtain additional financing; or any such financing may not be available on terms favorable to the Company. The Company’s ability to make expected repayments of borrowings under its Credit Agreement and to meet its other debt or contractual obligations (including compliance with applicable financial covenants) will depend upon the Company’s future performance and its cash flows from operations, both of which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other known and unknown risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s Credit Facility matures November 21, 2011, and the Company may be unable to renew or replace this financing. The Company has significantly reduced the carrying value of its Credit Facility and is, and has been, in compliance with all debt covenants, as amended. The Company has begun preliminary discussions regarding renewal of its Credit Facility and anticipates finalizing a renewal or replacement Credit Agreement although there are no assurances that such agreement will be completed by the loan maturity date. 7 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 