ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is dependent on one customer. The Company depends on adequate royalty income from Novartis to fund continuing operations. Currently, the Company has no other licensing arrangements in place. The Company was without an income stream as a result of Novartis making a voluntary product recall of the Company’s licensed products in June 2006. Subsequently, the Company has restarted its revenue stream with the launch by Novartis of an adult vapor patch during the last half of 2007. Royalties resulting from the launch of the new adult vapor patch, however, are uncertain because of the acceptance of the product in the market place, severity of the cough, cold and flu season, marketing efforts by Novartis and other factors that the Company is unable to control. We have a history of operating losses and have received a “going-concern” qualification from our independent registered public accounting firm. The Company has been unprofitable over the last three years because royalty and licensing fee income was not sufficient to cover operating expenses. We may incur future losses if royalty and licensing fee income is not sufficient to cover operating expenses. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated shareholders’ deficit of $12,381,932. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements indicating that such factors raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered in connection with companies in our position and the competitive environment in which our sole customer operates. Patents and other proprietary rights provide uncertain protection of our proprietary information and our inability to protect a patent or other proprietary right may adversely affect our business. The patent position of companies engaged in the sale of products such as ours is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Issued patents can later be held invalid by the patent office issuing the patent or by a court. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us a competitive advantage. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and development of products similar to our therapeutic consumer products. Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by us. The Company has taken steps and incurred expenses to protect and evaluate its patent portfolio in an effort to verify and determine validity of the Company’s patent rights. The outcome of this evaluation is uncertain and could be challenged. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information related to the manufacturing of our therapeutic consumer products. To the extent we rely on confidential information to maintain our competitive position, there can be no assurance that other parties will not independently develop the same or similar information. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the consumer products industry. Litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our effort, but may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us, to protect our trade secrets or know-how, to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that third parties will not pursue litigation that could be costly to us. An adverse determination in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from or pay royalties to third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Patent litigation is expensive and requires substantial amounts of management attention. The eventual outcome of patent litigation is uncertain and involves substantial risks. We are expending significant amounts of time, money and management resources on intellectual property litigation, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If licensees of our patents do not comply with regulatory requirements when marketing products which rely on our patents, our royalties could be negatively affected. The research, development, manufacture, labeling, distribution, marketing and advertising of products that are sold by licensees in reliance on our patents are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure by such licensees to comply with regulatory requirements for marketing their products could subject them to 6 Table of Contents regulatory or judicial enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, refusals to approve new products and suspensions and withdrawals of existing approvals. This in turn could decrease the revenues generated by such patent licensees and thereby decrease our royalty income. If products relying on our patents are no longer regulated as over-the-counter products, our royalties could be negatively affected. Currently, many of the therapeutic consumer products that are or could be sold in reliance on our patents are regulated as over-the-counter products. We cannot assure you that the FDA will continue to regulate these products as over-the-counter products. If the FDA changed its approach to regulating such therapeutic consumer products, the licensees would be faced with significant additional costs and may be unable to sell some or all of the products. Any such change could have a negative affect on the licensee’s revenues, which in turn could decrease our royalty income. We may need additional financing and any such financing will likely be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities, then existing shareholders will experience dilution in their ownership interest. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of debt or certain equity instruments, such as preferred stock, we may become subject to certain operational limitations, and such securities may have rights senior to those of existing holders of common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing. Additional financing may not be available to us, may not be available on favorable terms and will likely be dilutive to existing shareholders. The current unprecedented volatility in the worldwide credit and equity markets may have an impact on our ability to obtain future financing. We do not know what impact the current unprecedented volatility in worldwide credit and equity markets may have on our ability to obtain future financing. Since September 2008, we have seen unprecedented turmoil in equity and credit markets that has resulted in record-setting losses in the stock markets, dramatic decreases of liquidity in the credit markets, bank failures, hedge fund closures and massive market intervention by the United States and foreign governments. Because of the unprecedented nature of these market events, and because the markets remain highly-volatile today, we cannot predict what effect these events will have on our ability to obtain financing in the future. If we are unable to raise additional capital, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to remain in business. We have limited staffing. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our Board of Directors. The Company currently has one full-time employee whose efforts are focused on our external reporting requirements and maintaining our day-to-day operations. We are considered a small business issuer as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Current legislation related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), has impacted the Company. Efforts to become compliant under the parameters of SOX have been and are expected to be costly to the Company despite the internal controls the Company has in place. If our full-time employee or members of our Board of Directors decide to depart from the Company, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel or directors are not quickly retained. The current condition of the Company may make it difficult to retain and attract, if necessary, qualified personnel. The price of our common stock could be highly volatile due to a number of factors. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, including: • trading of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board and fluctuations in price and volume due to investor speculation, internet message postings, and other factors that may not be tied to the financial performance by the Company; • performance of products sold and advertised by licensees in the marketplace; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • market perception and customer acceptance of products sold by licensees; • outcomes related to the Company’s efforts to protect its patent portfolio; • increased competition; • relationships with licensees; • economic and other external factors; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. 7 Table of Contents We do not meet the criteria to list our securities on an exchange such as The NASDAQ Stock Market and our common stock is illiquid and may be difficult to sell. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Generally, securities that are quoted on the OTCBB lack liquidity and analyst coverage. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained if we met the criteria to list our securities on a larger or more established exchange, such as The NASDAQ Capital Market and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. In addition, there has been only limited trading activity in our common stock. The relatively small trading volume will likely make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their common stock as, and when, they choose. As a result, investors may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at the time and prices that they feel are fair or appropriate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 