ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Patent litigation is expensive and requires substantial amounts of management attention. The eventual outcome of patent litigation is uncertain and involves substantial risks. We are expending significant amounts of time, money and management resources on intellectual property litigation, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Litigation against the last defendant is scheduled for April 2011, with court ordered mediation to occur on March 30, 2011. We cannot give any assurance to the outcome of our litigation efforts as there are many variables related to a jury trial. The anticipated monetary rewards and damages, if any, are uncertain. The pursuit of merger and acquisition transactions is competitive and completion of such transaction may not have the desired outcome. We are pursuing a merger and acquisition strategy which is intended to leverage our cash asset and improve shareholder value and liquidity. Competition for companies to merge with or acquire is extensive and include, but are not limited to, private equity firms, hedge funds, and operating entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete such a transaction or be positioned to negotiate the most advantageous terms. Completion of a transaction will not assure that a liquid market for the Company’s stock will develop or the company will perform as anticipated to provide increased value to Company shareholders. Our business plan may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We are considering business opportunities that, if completed, although intended to increase aggregate shareholder value, would result in existing shareholders experiencing dilution in their ownership interest. Also, additional dilution could result if funds are raised pursuant to such activity, or otherwise in the future, by the issuance of convertible debt or equity securities. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of debt or certain equity instruments, such as preferred stock, we may become subject to certain operational limitations, and such securities may have rights senior to those of existing holders of common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing any transaction or in obtaining additional financing if necessary. Patents and other proprietary rights provide uncertain protection of our proprietary information and our inability to protect a patent or other proprietary rights may adversely affect our business. The patent and other proprietary rights position of companies such as ours is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Issued patents can later be held invalid by the patent office issuing the patent or by a court. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us value. Many other organizations, with substantially greater resources than ours, are engaged in research and development of technologies and products. 4 Table of Contents Such organizations may currently have, or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more technologies, products or methods which we currently consider proprietary to us. The Company has taken steps and incurred expenses to protect and evaluate its patent portfolio in an effort to verify and determine the validity of the Company’s patent rights. The outcome of this evaluation is uncertain and could be challenged. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that confidentiality agreements, trade secrecy agreements or similar agreements intended to protect unpatented technology will provide the intended protection. Intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time-consuming, and it is often difficult, if not impossible, to predict the outcome of such litigation. Adverse outcomes regarding our intellectual property, including claimed infringement of the rights of others, could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Expiration of our patents. Our patents have a limited life and finite expiration period. Although we have new patents pending approval, including for the hand sanitizer patch, our Patents—In—Suit, as defined in Item 3 hereof, will expire in 2014. We have limited staffing. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our Board of Directors and full time employees of the Company. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had two full-time employees’ whose efforts are focused on our external reporting requirements, maintaining our day-to-day operations, reducing costs, monitoring litigation activity and pursuing merger and acquisition opportunities. We are considered a small business issuer as defined under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Current legislation related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) and the Company’s efforts to become compliant thereunder, have been and are expected to be costly to the Company despite the internal controls the Company has in place. If our full-time employees’ or members of our Board of Directors decide to depart from the Company, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel or directors are not quickly retained. The current financial condition and associated risks of the Company may make it difficult to retain and attract, if necessary, qualified personnel. We currently have a key man life insurance policy on our CEO, Greg Freitag in the amount of $2,000,000. The price of our common stock could be highly volatile due to a number of factors. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, including: • trading of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board; • limited daily trading volume resulting in the lack of a liquid market; • fluctuations in price and volume due to investor speculation, internet message postings, and other factors that may not be tied to the financial performance by the Company; • outcomes related to the Company’s efforts to protect its patent portfolio; • performance by the Company in the execution of its business plan; • regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries; • performance of products sold and advertised by licensees in the marketplace; • economic and other external factors; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. We do not meet the criteria to list our securities on an exchange such as The NASDAQ Stock Market and our common stock is illiquid and may be difficult to sell. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Generally, securities that are quoted on the OTCBB lack liquidity and analyst coverage. This may result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained if we met the criteria to list our securities on a larger or more established exchange, such as The NASDAQ Capital Market and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. In addition, there has been only limited trading activity in our common stock. The relatively small trading volume will likely make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their common stock as, and when, they choose. As a result, investors may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at the time and prices that they feel are fair or appropriate. The Company has one licensing agreement that provides an ongoing royalty stream. The Company currently receives royalty income pursuant to a licensing Agreement it has with Novartis related to the sales of an adult vapor patch. Royalties resulting from such license provides very limited funds to continuing operations and are uncertain because of the acceptance of the product in the market place, severity of the cough, cold and flu seasons, marketing efforts by Novartis and other factors that the Company is unable to control. Year over year the Novartis royalties have declined and we anticipate that this trend will continue. Currently, the Company has no other licensing arrangements in place. 5 Table of Contents If licensees of our patents do not comply with regulatory requirements when marketing products which rely on our patents, our royalties could be negatively affected. The research, development, manufacture, labeling, distribution, marketing and advertising of products that are sold by licensees in reliance on our patents are subject to extensive regulation by governmental regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries. Failure by such licensees to comply with regulatory requirements for marketing their products could subject them to regulatory or judicial enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, refusals to approve new products and suspensions and withdrawals of existing approvals. This in turn could decrease the revenues generated by such patent licensees and thereby decrease our royalty income. If products relying on our patents are no longer regulated as over-the-counter products, our royalties could be negatively affected. Currently, many of the therapeutic consumer products that are or could be sold in reliance on our patents are regulated as over-the-counter products. We cannot assure you that the FDA will continue to regulate these products as over-the-counter products. If the FDA changed its approach to regulating such therapeutic consumer products, the licensees would be faced with significant additional costs and may be unable to sell some or all of the products. Any such change could have a negative affect on the licensee’s revenues, which in turn could decrease our royalty income. The issuance of new accounting pronouncements may have an impact on financial results. The issuance of accounting pronouncements may affect the Company’s results from time to time depending on specific issues relevant to our Company, adoption dates, and alternatives the Company may choose with respect to the particular pronouncement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 