Item 1A: Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. The most material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are described below. Investors in the Corporation’s stock should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in the report. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or currently deems immaterial, or are not controllable by management may also impair the Corporation’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If these events were to occur, the value of the Corporation’s common stock could decline significantly, and investors in the Corporation’s stock could lose all or part of their investment. Changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income, which is subject to interest rate risk due to fluctuations in market interest rates. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, unemployment, money supply, and domestic and international events, among others. We attempt to manage interest rate risk, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate sensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities. However, interest rate risk management is not an exact science. A rapid increase or decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial performance. Interest rate risk is discussed under Item 7A-Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. The Corporation is subject to credit risk. The Corporation is subject to credit risk if loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of loans is insufficient to assure repayment. The Corporation may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. In an economic downturn or recession, our credit risk could increase. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. Credit risk is discussed under the Credit Risk Management and Nonperforming Assets sections of this report. 7 Table of Contents The Corporation’s allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient. Management makes significant estimates in determining the allowance for loan losses. Management considers a variety of factors in establishing this estimate, such as current economic conditions, diversification of the loan portfolio, delinquency statistics, results of internal loan reviews, financial and managerial strength of borrowers, adequacy of collateral, if collateral dependent, or the present value of future cash flows and other relevant factors. Estimates related to the value of collateral also have a significant impact on whether or not management continues to accrue income on delinquent loans and on the amounts at which foreclosed real estate is recorded on the statement of financial condition. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from management. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income, and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The adequacy of the allowance is discussed under the Allowance for Loan Losses section of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. The trading volume in the Corporation’s common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. Codorus Valley’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol CVLY. The trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other larger financial companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Corporation has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Corporation’s common stock, significant sales of the Corporation’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Corporation’s stock price to languish or fall. The Corporation is subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Periodically, federal and state legislation is proposed that could result in additional regulation of, or restrictions on, the business of Codorus Valley and its subsidiaries. Management is not aware of any current specific recommendations by regulatory authorities or proposed legislation, which, if they were implemented, would have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, capital resources, or results of operations. However, the general cost of compliance with numerous and multiple federal and state laws and regulations does have, and in the future may have, a negative impact on Codorus Valley’s results of operations. Governmental regulation is discussed in Item I, under the Supervision and Regulation section within this report and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 