ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The amount of debt we have outstanding, as well as any debt we may incur in the future, could have an adverse effect on our operational and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2010, we had $38.6 million of debt outstanding, of which $33.3 million is long-term debt. Changes to our level of debt subsequent to December 31, 2010 could have significant consequences to our business, including the following: • Depending on interest rates and debt maturities, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to paying principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for our acquisition strategy, capital expenditures or other purposes; • A significant amount of debt could make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates; • Our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes could be impaired; • The increase in the amount of debt we have outstanding increases the risk of non-compliance with some of the covenants in our debt agreements which require us to maintain specified financial ratios; and • We may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may result in a competitive disadvantage. We are subject to debt covenant restrictions. Our credit facility contains several financial and other restrictive covenants. A significant decline in our operating income could cause us to violate our maximum leverage ratio, fixed charge ratio or minimum net worth ratio. A covenant violation would require a waiver by the lenders or an alternative financing arrangement be achieved. This could result in our being unable to borrow under our bank credit facility or being obliged to refinance and renegotiate the terms of our bank 6 Table of Contents indebtedness. Historically both choices have been available to us however in the current credit market environment it is difficult to predict the availability of these options in the future. Our future operating results could be impacted by estimates used to calculate impairment losses on long term assets. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make significant and subjective estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of long term assets in the financial statements. These estimates are integral in the determination of whether a potential impairment loss exists as well as the calculation of that loss. Actual future results could differ from those estimates. A write-off of all or part of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our operating results, net worth and cause us to violate covenants in our bank credit facility. At December 31, 2010, goodwill and purchased intangible assets were approximately 5.0% and approximately 3.3% of our total assets respectively. Our goodwill and other intangible assets may increase in the future since our strategy includes growing through acquisitions. We may have to write off all or part of our goodwill or purchased intangible assets if their value becomes impaired. Although this write-off would be a non-cash charge, it could reduce our earnings and net worth significantly. A write-off of goodwill or other intangible assets could also cause us to violate covenants in our bank credit facility that requires a minimum level of net worth. This could result in our inability to borrow under our bank credit facility or obligate us to refinance or renegotiate the terms of our bank indebtedness. The markets we serve are cyclical and sensitive to domestic and foreign economic conditions and events, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. In our Aerospace segment, demand by the business jet markets for our products is dependent upon several factors, including capital investment, product innovations, economic growth and wealth creation, and technology upgrades. In addition, the commercial airline industry is highly cyclical and sensitive to fuel price increases, labor disputes, global economic conditions, availability of capital to fund new aircraft purchases and upgrades of existing aircraft and passenger demand. A change in any of these factors could result in a reduction in the amount of air travel and the ability of airlines to invest in new aircraft or to upgrade existing aircraft. These factors would reduce orders for new aircraft and would likely reduce airlines spending for cabin upgrades for which we supply products, thus reducing our sales and profits. A reduction in air travel may also result in our commercial airline customers being unable to pay our invoices on a timely basis or not at all. We are a supplier on various new aircraft programs just entering or expected to begin production in the future such as the Boeing 787, F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and Lear 85. As with any new program there is risk as to whether the aircraft or program will be successful and accepted by the market. As is customary for our business we purchase inventory and invest in specific capital equipment to support our production requirements generally based on delivery schedules provided by our customer. If a program or aircraft is not successful we may have to write off all or a part of the inventory, accounts receivable and capital equipment related to the program. A write off of these assets could result in a significant reduction of earnings and cause covenant violations relating to our debt agreements. This could result in our being unable to borrow additional funds under our bank credit facility or being obliged to refinance or renegotiate the terms of our bank indebtedness. In our Test Systems segment, demand for our products is dependent upon several factors, including government funding levels for our products, our ability to compete successfully for those contracts and our ability to develop products to satisfy the demands of our customers. A change in any of these factors could result in a reduction of our sales and profits. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets. Some of our competitors are larger; more diversified corporations and have greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. Our operations and financial performance will be negatively impacted if our competitors: • Develop products that are superior to our products; • Develop products that are more competitively priced than our products; 7 Table of Contents • Develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or • Adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of support after the sale, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of the distribution organization. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. If we do not maintain sufficient resources to make these investments, or are not successful in maintaining our competitive position, our operations and financial performance will suffer. The loss of Panasonic Avionics Corporation or the U.S. Government as major customers or a significant reduction in sales to either or both of those two customers would reduce our sales and earnings. In 2010 we had a concentration of sales to Panasonic representing approximately 26.5% of our sales and to the U.S. Government representing approximately 15.0% of our sales. The loss of one or both of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to them would significantly reduce our sales and earnings. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team and technical personnel. The loss of members of our management team could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industry is intense, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend on our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Future terror attacks, war, or other civil disturbances could negatively impact our business. Continued terror attacks, war or other disturbances could lead to further economic instability and decreases in demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks world-wide have caused instability from time to time in global financial markets and the aviation industry. The long-term effects of terrorist attacks on us are unknown. These attacks and the U.S. Government’s continued efforts against terrorist organizations may lead to additional armed hostilities or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability. If we are unable to adapt to technological change, demand for our products may be reduced. The technologies related to our products have undergone, and in the future may undergo, significant changes. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we develop or that render our technology and products obsolete or uncompetitive. Furthermore, our products could become unmarketable if new industry standards emerge. We may have to modify our products significantly in the future to remain competitive, and new products we introduce may not be accepted by our customers. Our new product development efforts may not be successful, which would result in a reduction in our sales and earnings. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development of new products or product enhancements, and new products or product enhancements may not be accepted by our customers. In addition, the development expenses we incur may exceed our cost estimates, and new products we develop may not generate sales sufficient to offset our costs. If any of these events occur, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. We depend on government contracts and subcontracts with defense prime contractors and sub contractors that may not be fully funded, may be terminated, or may be awarded to our competitors. The failure to be awarded these contracts or failure to receive funding or the termination of one or more of these contracts could reduce our sales. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. The funding of these programs is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations, and congressional priorities are subject to change. In addition, government expenditures for defense programs may decline or these defense programs may be terminated. A decline in governmental expenditures or the termination of existing contracts may result in a reduction in the 8 Table of Contents volume of contracts awarded to us. We have resources applied to specific government contracts and if any of those contracts were terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying those resources. We make estimates in accounting for long-term contracts, and changes in these estimates may have significant impacts on our earnings. In the Test Systems segment, the Company has long-term contracts with our customers, accounted for using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Revenue representing approximately 8% of 2010 consolidated sales was accounted for using the percentage of completion method of accounting. Under the percentage of completion method, we recognize revenue as work progresses toward completion as determined by the ratio of cumulative costs incurred to date to estimated total contract costs at completion, multiplied by the total estimated contract revenue, less cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods. Changes in estimates affecting sales, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which the change becomes known using the cumulative catch-up method of accounting, resulting in the cumulative effect of changes reflected in the current period. A significant change in an estimate on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. For contracts with anticipated losses at completion, we establish a provision for the entire amount of the estimated loss and charge it against income in the period in which the loss becomes known. When they can be reliably estimated and realization is considered probable, the amounts representing performance incentives, penalties, contract claims, warranty costs or change orders are considered in estimating revenues, costs and profits. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or customer concerns about the subcontractor. Failure by our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations with our customer. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. Our results of operations are affected by our fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. For the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed-price contracts represented almost 100% of the Company’s sales. On fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the scope of work specified in the contract for a predetermined price. Depending on the fixed price negotiated, these contacts may provide us with an opportunity to achieve higher profits based on the relationship between our costs and the contract’s fixed price. However, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit. Some of our contracts contain late delivery penalties. Failure to deliver in a timely manner due to supplier problems, development schedule slides, manufacturing difficulties, or similar schedule related events could have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure of our products may damage our reputation, necessitate a product recall or result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, thereby requiring us to pay significant damages. Defects in the design and manufacture of our products may necessitate a product recall. We include complex system design and components in our products that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products. If any of our products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. We are also exposed to product liability claims. We carry aircraft and non-aircraft product liability insurance consistent with industry norms. However, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any potential claim. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our facilities could be damaged by catastrophes which could reduce our production capacity and result in a loss of customers. We conduct our operations in facilities located throughout the United States and Canada. These facilities could be damaged by fire, floods, high winds, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunication and information systems failure or similar events. Although we carry property insurance, including business interruption insurance, our inability to meet customers’ schedules as a result of catastrophe may result in a loss of customers or significant additional costs such as penalty claims under customer contracts. Changes in discount rates and other estimates could affect our future earnings and equity. Pension obligations and the related costs are determined using actual results and actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. The most critical assumption is the discount rate. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. The discount rate assumptions are based on current market conditions and are outside of our control. Changes in these assumptions could affect our future earnings and equity. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks that could adversely affect our business, liquidity and operating results. Changes in the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating could cause our cost of doing business to increase and place us at a competitive disadvantage. At December 31, 2010, approximately 64% of our debt was at fixed interest rates with the remaining percentage subject to variable interest rates. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from our customers defaulting on their obligations to us. The inability of our customers to pay us due to adverse economic conditions or their inability to access available credit could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Our international operations pose currency and other risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have manufacturing and sales operations in foreign countries. In addition, our domestic operations have sales to foreign customers. Our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currencies and by the translation of the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries from local currencies into U.S. dollars. The translation of our sales and operating costs designated in foreign currencies, which are primarily the Canadian Dollar to the U.S. dollar had an insignificant impact on both sales for 2010 using average exchange rates for 2010 compared to average exchange rates for 2009 and on sales for 2009 using average exchange rates for 2009 compared to average exchange rates for 2008. Our stock price is volatile. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our stock price ranged from a low of $7.42 to a high of $23.05. The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • variances of our quarterly results of operations from securities analyst estimates; • changes in financial estimates; • announcements of technological innovations, new products; and • news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies in the aerospace industry in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected by these fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Contracting in the defense industry is subject to significant regulation, including rules related to bidding, billing and accounting kickbacks and false claims, and any non-compliance could subject us to fines and penalties or possible debarment. Like all government contractors, we are subject to risks associated with this contracting. These risks include the potential for substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts 10 Table of Contents could harm our business reputation. It could also result in suspension or debarment from future government contracts. Government regulations could limit our ability to sell our products outside the United States and otherwise adversely affect our business. Our failure to obtain the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with other government export regulations would hinder our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States. Compliance with these government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and operating costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In order to sell our products in European Union countries, we must satisfy certain technical requirements. If we are unable to comply with those requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in Europe would be restricted. Doing business internationally also subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, foreign corrupt practices and anti-boycott provisions. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which would have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to meet expectations of securities analysts or investors due to fluctuations in our revenue or operating results, our stock price could decline significantly. Our revenue and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including delays or cancellations of programs. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this event, the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. We may incur losses and liabilities as a result of our acquisition strategy. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results, including: • diversion of management time and attention from our core business, • the potential exposure to unanticipated liabilities, • the potential that expected benefits or synergies are not realized and that operating costs increase, • the risks associated with incurring additional acquisition indebtedness, including that additional indebtedness could limit our cash flow availability for operations and our flexibility, • difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, and • the potential loss of key employees, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, could negatively impact our financial performance if it does not perform as planned, does not increase earnings, or does not prove otherwise to be beneficial to us. We may become involved in the future in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could materially impact our financial condition. As an aerospace company, we may become a party to litigation in the ordinary course of our business, including, among others, matters alleging product liability, warranty claims, breach of commercial or government contract or other legal actions. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 