Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Astronics is a leading supplier of products to the aerospace and defense industries. Our products include advanced, high-performance lighting systems, electrical power generation systems, aircraft safety systems, electrical power distribution systems and avionics products for the global aerospace industry as well as test, training and simulation systems primarily for the military. We have eight primary locations, seven in the United States and one in Canada. We design and build our products through our wholly owned subsidiaries Astronics Advanced Electronic Systems Corp. (“AES”), Ballard Technology, Inc. (“Ballard”), DME Corporation (“DME”), Luminescent Systems, Inc. (“LSI”), Luminescent Systems Canada, Inc. (“LSI Canada”) and Max-Viz, Inc. (“Max-Viz”). We have two reportable segments, Aerospace and Test Systems. On November 30, 2011, Astronics acquired 100% of the stock of Ballard. Ballard designs and manufactures avionics databus solutions for defense and commercial aerospace applications. On July 30, 2012 Astronics acquired by merger, 100% of the stock of Max-Viz, Inc. Max-Viz designs and manufactures industry-leading enhanced vision systems for defense and commercial aerospace applications for the purpose of improving situational awareness. Both Ballard and Max-Viz are part of our Aerospace segment. Products and Customers Our Aerospace segment designs and manufactures products for the global aerospace industry. Product lines include Aircraft Lighting, Cabin Electronics, Airframe Power, Avionics Products and Airfield Lighting. Our Aerospace customers are the airframe manufacturers (OEM’s) that build aircraft for the commercial, military and general aviation markets, suppliers to those OEM’s, aircraft operators such as airlines and branches of the U.S. Department of Defense as well as the Federal Aviation Administration and airport operators. During 2012, this segment’s sales were divided 70% to the commercial transport market, 14% to the military aircraft market, 12% to the business jet market and 4% to the FAA/airport market. Most of this segment’s sales are a result of contracts or purchase orders received from customers, placed on a day-to-day basis or for single year procurements rather than long-term multi-year contract commitments. On occasion the Company does receive contractual commitments or blanket purchase orders from our customers covering multiple year deliveries of hardware to our customers. Our Test Systems segment designs, develops, manufactures and maintains communications and weapons test systems and training and simulation devices for military applications. In the Test Systems Segment, Astronics’ products are sold primarily to the U.S. military, foreign militaries and manufacturers of military communication systems. During 2012, this segment’s sales were all to the military markets. This segment’s revenue is recognized at time of shipment and transfer of title and from long-term, primarily fixed price contracts using the percentage of completion method of accounting, measured by multiplying the estimated total contract value by the ratio of actual contract costs incurred to date to the estimated total contract costs. We make significant estimates involving usage of percentage-of-completion accounting to recognize contract revenues. We periodically review contracts in process for estimates-to-completion, and revise estimated gross profit accordingly. While we believe our estimated gross profit on contracts in process is reasonable, unforeseen events and changes in circumstances can take place in a subsequent accounting period that may cause us to revise our estimated gross profit on one or more of our contracts in process. Accordingly, the ultimate gross profit realized upon completion of such contracts can vary significantly from estimated amounts between accounting periods. Sales by Segment, Geographic Region, Major Customer and Canadian Operations are provided in Note 18 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this report. We have a significant concentration of business with two major customers, Panasonic Avionics Corporation and to various Department of Defense branches of the U.S. Government. Sales to Panasonic Avionics accounted for 38.0% of sales in 2012, 35.7% of sales in 2011 and 26.5% of sales in 2010. Accounts receivable from this customer at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $17.4 million and $9.9 million, respectively. Sales to the U.S. Government accounted for 7.2% of sales in 2012, 9.0% of sales in 2011 and 15.0% of sales in 2010. Accounts receivable from this customer at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $2.6 million and $3.9 million, respectively. Strategy Our strategy is to develop and maintain positions of technical leadership in our chosen aerospace and defense markets, leveraging those positions to grow the amount of content and volume of product sold to those markets and to selectively acquire businesses that could benefit from our leadership position and strategic direction. Practices as to Maintaining Working Capital Liquidity is discussed in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the Liquidity section of this report. 4 Table of Contents Competitive Conditions We experience considerable competition in the market sectors we serve, principally with respect to product performance and price, from various competitors, many of which are substantially larger and have greater resources. Success in the markets we serve depends upon product innovation, customer support, responsiveness, and cost management. We continue to invest in developing the technologies and engineering support critical to competing in our markets. Government Contracts All U.S. Government contracts, including subcontracts where the U.S. Government is the ultimate customer, may be subject to termination at the election of the government. Our revenue stream relies on military spending. Approximately 18% of our consolidated sales was made to the military market. Raw Materials Materials, supplies and components are purchased from numerous sources. We believe that the loss of any one source, although potentially disruptive in the short-term, would not materially affect our operations in the long-term. Seasonality Our business is typically not seasonal. Backlog At December 31, 2012, our backlog was $ 114.5 million. At December 31, 2011, our backlog was $106.3 million. Backlog in the Aerospace segment was $110.9 million of which $94.2 million is expected to be realized in 2013. Backlog in the Test Systems segment was $3.6 million at December 31, 2012 all of which is expected to be realized in 2013. Patents We have a number of patents. While the aggregate protection of these patents is of value, our only material business that is dependent upon the protection afforded by these patents is our cabin power distribution products. Our patents and patent applications relate to electroluminescence, instrument panels, keyboard technology and a broad patent covering the cabin power distribution technology. We regard our expertise and techniques as proprietary and rely upon trade secret laws and contractual arrangements to protect our rights. We have trademark protection in major markets. Research, Development and Engineering Activities We are engaged in a variety of engineering and design activities as well as basic research and development activities directed to the substantial improvement or new application of our existing technologies. These costs are expensed when incurred and included in cost of sales. Research, development and engineering costs amounted to approximately $44.9 million in 2012, $36.1 million in 2011 and $28.3 million in 2010. Employees We employed 1,156 employees as of December 31, 2012. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Stock Distribution On October 15, 2012, the Company announced a three-for-twenty distribution of Class B Stock to holders of both Common and Class B Stock. Stockholders received three shares of Class B Stock for every twenty shares of Common and Class B Stock held on the record date of October 29, 2012. Fractional shares were paid in cash. All share quantities, share prices and per share data reported throughout this report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of this distribution. Available information We file our financial information and other materials as electronically required by the SEC with the SEC. These materials can be accessed electronically via the Internet at www.sec.gov. Such materials and other information about the Company are also available through our website at www.astronics.com. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The loss of Panasonic Avionics Corporation or the U. S. Government as major customers or a significant reduction in sales to either or both of those two customers would reduce our sales and earnings. In 2012 we had a concentration of sales to Panasonic representing approximately 38.0% of our sales and to the U.S. Government representing approximately 7.2% of our sales. The loss of one or both of these customers or a significant reduction in sales to them would significantly reduce our sales and earnings. The amount of debt we have outstanding, as well as any debt we may incur in the future, could have an adverse effect on our operational and financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $30.0 million of debt outstanding, of which $20.7 million is long-term debt. Changes to our level of debt subsequent to December 31, 2012 could have significant consequences to our business, including the following: • Depending on interest rates and debt maturities, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be dedicated to paying principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for our acquisition strategy, capital expenditures or other purposes; • A significant amount of debt could make us more vulnerable to changes in economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates; • Our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other purposes could be impaired; • The increase in the amount of debt we have outstanding increases the risk of non-compliance with some of the covenants in our debt agreements which require us to maintain specified financial ratios; and • We may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may result in a competitive disadvantage. We are subject to debt covenant restrictions. Our credit facility contains several financial and other restrictive covenants. A significant decline in our operating income could cause us to violate our covenants. A covenant violation would require a waiver by the lenders or an alternative financing arrangement be achieved. This could result in our being unable to borrow under our bank credit facility or being obliged to refinance and renegotiate the terms of our bank indebtedness. Historically both choices have been available to us however it is difficult to predict the availability of these options in the future. Our future operating results could be impacted by estimates used to calculate impairment losses on long term assets. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make significant and subjective estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of long term assets in the financial statements. These estimates are integral in the determination of whether a potential impairment loss exists as well as the calculation of that loss. Actual future results could differ from those estimates. A write-off of all or part of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our operating results, net worth and cause us to violate covenants in our bank credit facility. At December 31, 2012, goodwill and purchased intangible assets were approximately 10.3% and approximately 7.8% of our total assets respectively. Our goodwill and other intangible assets may increase in the future since our strategy includes growing through acquisitions. We may have to write off all or part of our goodwill or purchased intangible assets if their value becomes impaired. Although this write-off would be a non-cash charge, it could reduce our earnings and net worth significantly. The markets we serve are cyclical and sensitive to domestic and foreign economic conditions and events, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. In our Aerospace segment, demand by the business jet markets for our products is dependent upon several factors, including capital investment, product innovations, economic growth and wealth creation, and technology upgrades. In addition, the commercial airline industry is highly cyclical and sensitive to fuel price increases, labor disputes, global economic conditions, availability of capital to fund new aircraft purchases and upgrades of existing aircraft and passenger demand. A change in any of these factors could result in a reduction in the amount of air travel and the ability of airlines to invest in new aircraft or to upgrade existing aircraft. These factors would reduce orders for new aircraft and would likely reduce airlines spending for cabin upgrades for which we supply products, thus reducing our sales and profits. A reduction in air travel may also result in our commercial airline customers being unable to pay our invoices on a timely basis or not at all. We are a supplier on various new aircraft programs just entering or expected to begin production in the future such as the Boeing 787, F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and Lear 85. As with any new program there is risk as to whether the aircraft or program will be successful and accepted by the market. As is customary for our business we purchase inventory and invest in specific capital equipment to support our production requirements generally based on delivery schedules provided by our customer. If a program or aircraft is not successful we may have to write off all or a part of the inventory, accounts receivable and capital equipment related to the program. A write off of these assets could result in a significant reduction of earnings and cause covenant violations relating to our debt agreements. This could result in our being unable to borrow additional funds under our bank credit facility or being obliged to refinance or renegotiate the terms of our bank indebtedness. 6 Table of Contents In our Test Systems segment, demand for our products is dependent upon several factors, including government funding levels for our products, our ability to compete successfully for those contracts and our ability to develop products to satisfy the demands of our customers. A change in any of these factors could result in a reduction of our sales and profits. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets. Some of our competitors are larger; more diversified corporations and have greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. Our operations and financial performance will be negatively impacted if our competitors: • Develop products that are superior to our products; • Develop products that are more competitively priced than our products; • Develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or • Adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of support after the sale, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of the distribution organization. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. If we do not maintain sufficient resources to make these investments, or are not successful in maintaining our competitive position, our operations and financial performance will suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team and technical personnel. The loss of members of our management team could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industry is intense, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend on our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Future terror attacks, war, or other civil disturbances could negatively impact our business. Continued terror attacks, war or other disturbances could lead to further economic instability and decreases in demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks world-wide have caused instability from time to time in global financial markets and the aviation industry. The long-term effects of terrorist attacks on us are unknown. These attacks and the U.S. Government’s continued efforts against terrorist organizations may lead to additional armed hostilities or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability. If we are unable to adapt to technological change, demand for our products may be reduced. The technologies related to our products have undergone, and in the future may undergo, significant changes. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we develop or that render our technology and products obsolete or uncompetitive. Furthermore, our products could become unmarketable if new industry standards emerge. We may have to modify our products significantly in the future to remain competitive, and new products we introduce may not be accepted by our customers. Our new product development efforts may not be successful, which would result in a reduction in our sales and earnings. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development of new products or product enhancements, and new products or product enhancements may not be accepted by our customers. In addition, the development expenses we incur may exceed our cost estimates, and new products we develop may not generate sales sufficient to offset our costs. If any of these events occur, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. We depend on government contracts and subcontracts with defense prime contractors and sub-contractors that may not be fully funded, may be terminated, or may be awarded to our competitors. The failure to be awarded these contracts or failure to receive funding or the termination of one or more of these contracts could reduce our sales. Sales to the U.S. Government and its prime contractors and subcontractors represent a significant portion of our business. The funding of these programs is generally subject to annual congressional appropriations, and congressional priorities are subject to change. In addition, government expenditures for defense programs may decline or these defense programs may be terminated. A decline in governmental expenditures or the termination of existing contracts may result in a reduction in the volume of contracts awarded to us. We have resources applied to specific government contracts and if any of those contracts were terminated, we may incur substantial costs redeploying those resources. 7 Table of Contents If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or customer concerns about the subcontractor. Failure by our subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations with our customer. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. Our results of operations are affected by our fixed-price contracts, which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. For the year ended December 31, 2012, fixed-price contracts represented almost all of the Company’s sales. On fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the scope of work specified in the contract for a predetermined price. Depending on the fixed price negotiated, these contacts may provide us with an opportunity to achieve higher profits based on the relationship between our costs and the contract’s fixed price. However, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit. Some of our contracts contain late delivery penalties. Failure to deliver in a timely manner due to supplier problems, development schedule slides, manufacturing difficulties, or similar schedule related events could have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure of our products may damage our reputation, necessitate a product recall or result in claims against us that exceed our insurance coverage, thereby requiring us to pay significant damages. Defects in the design and manufacture of our products may necessitate a product recall. We include complex system design and components in our products that could contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products. If any of our products are defective, we could be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages or warranty claims. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. We are also exposed to product liability claims. We carry aircraft and non-aircraft product liability insurance consistent with industry norms. However, this insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover the payment of any potential claim. A product recall or a product liability claim not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in discount rates and other estimates could affect our future earnings and equity. Pension obligations and the related costs are determined using actual results and actuarial valuations that involve several assumptions. The most critical assumption is the discount rate. Other assumptions include salary increases and retirement age. The discount rate assumptions are based on current market conditions and are outside of our control. Changes in these assumptions could affect our future earnings and equity. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks that could adversely affect our business, liquidity and operating results. Changes in the availability, terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating could cause our cost of doing business to increase and place us at a competitive disadvantage. At December 31, 2012, approximately 23% of our debt was at fixed interest rates with the remaining percentage subject to variable interest rates. Contracting in the defense industry is subject to significant regulation, including rules related to bidding, billing and accounting kickbacks and false claims, and any non-compliance could subject us to fines and penalties or possible debarment. Like all government contractors, we are subject to risks associated with this contracting. These risks include the potential for substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in suspension or debarment from future government contracts. If we fail to meet expectations of securities analysts or investors due to fluctuations in our revenue or operating results, our stock price could decline significantly. Our revenue and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including delays or cancellations of programs. It is likely that in some future quarters our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this event, the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. Our stock price is volatile. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our stock price ranged from a low of $19.85 to a high of $31.82. The price of our common stock has been and likely will continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of events and factors, such as: • quarterly variations in operating results; • variances of our quarterly results of operations from securities analyst estimates; • changes in financial estimates; • announcements of technological innovations, new products; and • news reports relating to trends in our markets. 8 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies in the aerospace industry in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the companies affected by these fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We may incur losses and liabilities as a result of our acquisition strategy. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results, including: • diversion of management time and attention from our core business, • the potential exposure to unanticipated liabilities, • the potential that expected benefits or synergies are not realized and that operating costs increase, • the risks associated with incurring additional acquisition indebtedness, including that additional indebtedness could limit our cash flow availability for operations and our flexibility, • difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, and • the potential loss of key employees, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, could negatively impact our financial performance if it does not perform as planned, does not increase earnings, or does not prove otherwise to be beneficial to us. We currently are involved or may become involved in the future, in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could materially impact our financial condition. As an aerospace company, we may become a party to litigation in the ordinary course of our business, including, among others, matters alleging product liability, warranty claims, breach of commercial or government contract or other legal actions. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact results of operations and financial condition. We are a defendant in an action filed in the Regional State Court of Mannheim, Germany (Lufthansa Technik AG v. Astronics Advanced Electronics Systems Corp.) relating to an allegation of patent infringement. The damages sought include injunctive relief, as well as monetary damages. We dispute the allegation and are vigorously defending ourselves in this action. We have filed a nullity action with the Federal Patent Court in Munich Germany, requesting the court to revoke the German part of the European patent that is subject to the claim. In November 2011, the Regional State Court of Manheim Germany, issued an interim decision to the effect that the infringement litigation proceedings be stayed until the Federal Patent Court decides on the concurrent nullity action. At this time we are unable to provide a reasonable estimate of our potential liability or the potential amount of loss related to this action, if any. If the outcome of this litigation is adverse to us, our results and financial condition could be materially affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 9 Table of Contents 