ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Psychemedics Corporation and its business because such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. These risk factors could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Companies may develop products that compete with our products and some of these companies may be larger and better capitalized than we are. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and offer a range of products broader than our products. Some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future may develop more extensive research and marketing capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may become better positioned to compete in an evolving industry. Failure to compete successfully could harm our business and prospects. Our results of operations are subject in part to variation in our customers’ hiring practices and other factors beyond our control. Our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to variation in our customers’ hiring practices, which in turn is dependent, to a large extent, on the general condition of the economy. Results for a particular quarter may vary due to a number of factors, including: • economic conditions in our markets in general; • economic conditions affecting our customers and their particular industries; • the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; and • pricing and other competitive conditions. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe or copy portions of our technology. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until either (1) 18 months after the application filing date or (2) the publication date of an issued patent wherein applicant(s) seek only US patent protection, applications not yet disclosed may have been filed which relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States intellectual property laws. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. Our business could be affected by a computer or other IT System failure. A computer or IT system failure could affect our ability to perform tests, report test results or properly bill customers. Failures could occur as a result of the standardization of our IT systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. Our future success will depend on the continued services of our key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel, particularly our key sales and marketing personnel, could harm our business and prospects. Our success will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. We do not have any key man life insurance for any of our officers or other key personnel. 9 Table of Contents Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues during the second half of fiscal 2007 and continuing into the first quarter of fiscal 2008, leading to liquidity disruption in asset-backed commercial paper and failed auctions in the auction rate market. Our short-term investments include high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate securities, primarily backed by municipal bonds and student loans. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to potential risks and we will incur costs as a result of the internal control assessment and attestation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated, tested and implemented internal controls over financial reporting to enable management to report on such internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In connection with the filing of our annual report for 2008, we are currently required to provide an auditor attestation on internal controls. The additional testing and the auditor attestation could cause us to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and staffing levels. While we believe that we are compliant with the management evaluation requirements of Section 404, if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance. Our reliance on one supplier for certain raw materials used in our testing procedures could harm our business and prospects. Since its inception, the Company has purchased raw materials for its laboratory services from outside suppliers. The most critical of these raw materials are the radio-labeled drugs, which the Company purchases from a single supplier, although other suppliers of radio-labeled drugs exist. The Company has entered into an agreement with its principal supplier to purchase certain proprietary information regarding the manufacture of such radio-labeled drugs owned by the supplier in the event that the supplier ceases to be able to supply such radio-labeled drugs to the Company. Obtaining alternative sources of supply of the radio-labeled drugs could involve delays and other costs; however, the Company maintains a surplus supply. The failure of the Company’s primary or any alternative supplier of radio-labeled drugs to provide such radio-labeled drugs at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier and the exhaustion of the Company’s current supply on hand could result in lost or deferred sales. The Company was unsuccessful in the arbitration proceeding it brought against the supplier involving restrictions on the supplier’s ability to sell to third parties portions of its inventory of antibodies. However, other antibody suppliers exist. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from errors and omissions liability or other claims, or that in the future errors and omissions insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our business involves the risk of claims of errors and omissions and other claims inherent to our business. We maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from all such possible claims. An under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our operating results or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 10 Table of Contents 