Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our objectives, expectations and intentions. The cautionary statements made in this report should be read as applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Companies may develop products that compete with our products and some of these companies may be larger and better capitalized than we are. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and offer a range of products broader than our products. Some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future may develop more extensive research and marketing capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may become better positioned to compete in an evolving industry. Failure to compete successfully could harm our business and prospects. Our results of operations are subject in part to variation in our customers’ hiring practices and other factors beyond our control. 10 Table of Contents Our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to variation in our customer’s hiring practices, which in turn is dependent to a large extent on the general condition of the economy. Results for a particular quarter may vary due to a number of factors, including: • economic conditions in our markets in general; • economic conditions affecting our customers and their particular industries; • the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; and • pricing and other competitive conditions. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe or copy portions of our technology. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until either (1) 18 months after the application filing date or (2) the publication date of an issued patent wherein applicant(s) seek only US patent protection, applications not yet disclosed may have been filed which relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States intellectual property laws. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. Our future success will depend on the continued services of our key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel, particularly our key sales and marketing personnel, could harm our business and prospects. Our success will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. We do not have any key man life insurance for any of our officers or other key personnel. Our reliance on one supplier for certain raw materials used in our testing procedures could harm our business and prospects. Since its inception, the Company has purchased raw materials for its laboratory services from outside suppliers. The most critical of these raw materials are the radio-labeled drugs, which the Company purchases from a single supplier, although other suppliers of radio-labeled drugs exist. The Company has entered into an agreement with its principal supplier to purchase certain proprietary information regarding the manufacture of such radio-labeled drugs owned by the supplier in the event that the supplier ceases to be able to supply such radio-labeled drugs to the Company. Obtaining alternative sources of supply of the radio-labeled drugs could involve delays and other costs; however, the Company maintains a surplus supply. The failure of the Company’s primary or any alternative supplier of radio-labeled drugs to provide such radio-labeled drugs at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier and the exhaustion of the Company’s current supply on hand could result in lost or deferred sales. The Company is currently engaged in an arbitration proceeding to protect the inventory of antibodies that it uses. 11 Table of Contents We have and will continue to incur stock-based compensation charges related to certain stock options and restricted stock grants. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (“123R”), an amendment of FASB Statements Nos. 123 and 95, that addresses the accounting treatment for employee stock options and other share-based payment transactions. 123R eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and recognized as expenses. In response to 123R, the Company in 2006 ceased granting stock options and began issuing to executives restricted stock units instead. The adoption of 123R and the Company’s change in its equity compensation policy resulted in our incurring as an expense in 2006 a portion of the fair value of stock-based awards granted in 2006. In addition, we will incur expense in 2007 and 2008 as a result of such stock-based awards granted in 2006 and we may incur expense in such years and in future years in the event future equity-based awards are granted. We are exposed to potential risks and we will incur costs as a result of the internal control assessment and attestation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As currently proposed, coincident with the filing of our annual report for 2007, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Documenting and testing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting will cause us to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels. It should be noted that the majority of our documentation work has been completed. In connection with the filing of our annual report for 2008, we are required to provide an auditor’s attestation on internal controls. If we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from errors and omissions liability or other claims, or that in the future errors and omissions insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our business involves the risk of claims of errors and omissions and other claims inherent to our business. We maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from all such possible claims. An under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our operating results or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 12 Table of Contents Not applicable. 