ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Psychemedics Corporation and its business because such factors could have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. These risk factors could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Companies may develop products that compete with our products and some of these companies may be larger and better capitalized than we are. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and offer a range of products broader than our products. Some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future may develop more extensive research and marketing capabilities and greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may become better positioned to compete in an evolving industry. Failure to compete successfully could harm our business and prospects. Our results of operations are subject in part to variation in our customers’ hiring practices and other factors beyond our control. Our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to variation in our customers’ hiring practices, which in turn is dependent, to a large extent, on the general condition of the economy. Results for a particular quarter may vary due to a number of factors, including: • economic conditions in our markets in general; • economic conditions affecting our customers and their particular industries; • the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors; and • pricing and other competitive conditions. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe or copy portions of our technology. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until either (1) 18 months after the application filing date or (2) the publication date of an issued patent wherein applicant(s) seek only US patent protection, applications not yet disclosed may have been filed which relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States intellectual property laws. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. Our business could be affected by a computer or other IT System failure. A computer or IT system failure could affect our ability to perform tests, report test results or properly bill customers. Failures could occur as a result of the standardization of our IT systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. Our future success will depend on the continued services of our key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel, could harm our business and prospects. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. We do not have key personnel under contract other than 3 officers who have agreements providing for severance and non compete covenants in the event of termination of employment following a change of control. Further, we do not have any key man life insurance for any of our officers or other key personnel. 9 Table of Contents We are exposed to potential risks and we will incur costs as a result of the internal control assessment and attestation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated, tested and implemented internal controls over financial reporting to enable management to report on such internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In connection with the filing of our annual report for 2009, we are currently required to provide an auditor attestation on internal controls. The additional testing and the auditor attestation could cause us to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and staffing levels. While we believe that we are compliant with the management evaluation requirements of Section 404, if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We intend to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance. Our reliance on one supplier for certain raw materials used in our testing procedures could harm our business and prospects. Since its inception, the Company has purchased raw materials for its laboratory services from outside suppliers. The most critical of these raw materials are the radio-labeled drugs, which the Company purchases from a single supplier, although other suppliers of radio-labeled drugs exist. The Company has entered into an agreement with its principal supplier to purchase certain proprietary information regarding the manufacture of such radio-labeled drugs owned by the supplier in the event that the supplier ceases to be able to supply such radio-labeled drugs to the Company. Obtaining alternative sources of supply of the radio-labeled drugs could involve delays and other costs; however, the Company maintains a surplus supply. The failure of the Company’s primary or any alternative supplier of radio-labeled drugs to provide such radio-labeled drugs at an acceptable price, or an interruption of supplies from such a supplier and the exhaustion of the Company’s current supply on hand could result in lost or deferred sales. The Company was unsuccessful in the arbitration proceeding it brought against the supplier involving restrictions on the supplier’s ability to sell to third parties portions of its inventory of antibodies. However, other antibody suppliers exist. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from errors and omissions liability or other claims, or that in the future errors and omissions insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. Our business involves the risk of claims of errors and omissions and other claims inherent to our business. We maintain errors and omissions and general liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from all such possible claims. An under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our operating results or financial condition. Our research and development capabilities may not produce viable new services or products. We are attempting to develop further capabilities in the drug testing arena. It is uncertain whether we will be able to develop services that are more efficient, effective or that are suitable for our customers. Our ability to create viable products or services depends on many factors, including the implementation of appropriate technologies, the development of effective new research tools, the complexity of the chemistry and biology, the lack of predictability in the scientific process and the performance and decision-making capabilities of our scientists. Further, some of our existing patents are due to expire within the next 2-5 years. Our research and development teams are working to develop improved processes with the aim of gaining additional patent protection. There is no guarantee that they will be successful in developing these improvements or gaining such additional patent protection. If all of our patents expire, there may be increased competition in the marketplace for our service or we might be required to rely on trade secret protection. We may not be able to recruit and retain the experienced scientists and management we need to compete in our industry. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientists and management. Our ability to achieve our business strategies depends on our ability to hire and retain high caliber scientists and other qualified experts. We compete with other testing companies, research companies and academic and research institutions to recruit personnel and face significant competition for qualified personnel. We may incur greater costs than anticipated, or may not be successful, in attracting new scientists or management or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. 10 Table of Contents Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, to manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. Our facilities and practices may fail to comply with government regulations. Our testing facilities and processes must be operated in conformity with current government regulations. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may not be able to continue our services to certain customers, or we could be subject to fines and penalties, suspension of production, or withdrawal of our certifications. We operate a facility that we believe conforms to all applicable requirements. This facility and our testing practices are subject to periodic regulatory inspections to ensure compliance. If our use of chemical and hazardous materials violates applicable laws or regulations or causes personal injury we may be liable for damages. Our drug testing activities, including the analysis and synthesis of chemicals, involve the controlled use of chemicals, including flammable, combustible, toxic and radioactive materials that are potentially hazardous. Our use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act and local fire codes, and regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Energy, and the California Department of Public Health and Environment. We may incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, which could result in material unanticipated expenses, such as substantial fines or penalties, remediation costs or damages, or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our business. Those expenses could exceed our net worth and limit our ability to raise additional capital. Our operations could be interrupted by damage to our specialized laboratory facilities. Our operations are dependent upon the continued use of our highly specialized laboratories and equipment in Culver City, California. Catastrophic events, including earthquakes, fires or explosions, could damage our laboratories, equipment, scientific data, work in progress or inventories of chemicals and may materially interrupt our business. We employ safety precautions in our laboratory activities in order to reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of certain catastrophic events; however, we cannot eliminate the chance that such events will occur. The availability of laboratory space in these locations is limited, and rebuilding our facilities could be time consuming and result in substantial delays in fulfilling our agreements with our customers. We maintain business interruption insurance to cover continuing expenses and lost revenue caused by such occurrences. However, this insurance does not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential harm to customer relations that our inability to meet our customers’ needs in a timely manner could create. Agreements we have with our employees, consultants and customers may not afford adequate protection for our trade secrets, confidential information and other proprietary information. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our failure or inability to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to compete effectively, or exclude certain competitors from the market. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Stock Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Our results are impacted by the extent to which we are able to gain new customers and on the hiring practices of our existing customers, which are, in turn, impacted by general economic conditions. Entering into new customer contracts can involve a long lead time. Accordingly, negotiation can be lengthy and is subject to a number of significant risks, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal reviews. Due to these and other market factors, our operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, we may experience significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to factors such as general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect the budgets and the hiring practices of our customers. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If we do not meet analysts’ and/or investors’ expectations, our stock price could decline. Our stock price could experience substantial volatility. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience extensive volatility. Our quarterly operating results, the success or failure of future development efforts, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting our customers, our competitors or us could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. This volatility may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. Payment of a dividend could decline or cease. Because we have historically paid dividends, any cessation of our program or reduction in our quarterly dividend could affect our stock price. We have paid dividends on our common stock for 50 consecutive quarters. It is our intent to continue this practice as long as we are able. However, if we are forced to cease this practice or reduce the amount of the regular dividend, due to operating or economic conditions, our stock price could suffer. In December 2008, the Company also paid a special dividend. Investors should not anticipate or expect any future or recurring special dividends. Further, if the Company ceases its future dividends, a return on investment in our common stock would depend entirely upon future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. The general economic condition could continue to deteriorate Our business is dependent upon new hiring and the supply of new jobs created by overall economic conditions. If the economy continues to deteriorate, leading to high unemployment and the lack of new job creation, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 12 Table of Contents 