Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This annual report contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The cautionary statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read as being applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There is no assurance we will operate profitably. We incurred a net income (loss) of $3,971,000, $5,220,000 and ($3,870,000), in the fiscal years ended August 25, 2007, August 26, 2006 and August 27, 2005, respectively. While we were profitable in the most recent fiscal year, the furniture business is cyclical and we have been impacted in the past and will continue to be affected by changes in such cycles, by losses from new stores, the overall economic and political climate, by changes in consumer preferences or demographics or unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause us to incur losses from operations. Our company could suffer from potential conflicts of interest. Potential conflicts of interest exist since Harley J. Greenfield, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Edward B. Seidner, our Executive Vice President, and a former director, are owed over $10 million by the related company, which owns, controls or licenses the related company stores. Accordingly, such persons derive substantial economic benefits from the related company. In addition, Fred Love, the co-founder of the related company, was Mr. Greenfield’s brother-in-law. Mr. Love passed away in October 2004 and Jane Love, Mr. Greenfield’s sister, is currently acting as the interim President of the related company. Circumstances may arise in which the interest of the related company stores, of the related company or of Mr. Greenfield and Mr. Seidner will conflict with our interests. There are also numerous relationships, and have been numerous transactions, between us and the related company, including an agreement under which we warehouse and purchase merchandise for 7 the related company, manage its stores and provide it other services. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our Proxy Statement to be furnished in connection with our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held February 5, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference. We heavily depend on two suppliers. We purchase a significant percentage of our merchandise from Klaussner, which also manufactures furniture under the Sealy® brand name. During the fiscal year ended August 25, 2007, we purchased approximately 14% of our merchandise from Klaussner and 72% of our merchandise from Caye. Since a large portion of our revenues have been derived from sales of Klaussner and Caye products, the loss of these suppliers could have a material adverse impact on us until alternative sources of supply are established. Our obligations to Caye are secured by substantially all of our assets. Klaussner is also a principal stockholder and creditor of ours. Klaussner’s and Caye’s position as significant creditors could potentially result in a temporary or permanent loss of our principal supply of merchandise, if, for example, Klaussner and Caye halted supply because we defaulted on or were late in making our payments to them. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our Proxy Statement to be furnished in connection with our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held February 5, 2008, which is hereby incorporated by reference. The cyclical nature of the furniture industry poses risks to us from prolonged economic downturn. The furniture industry has been historically cyclical, fluctuating with general economic cycles. During economic downturns, the furniture industry tends to experience longer periods of recession and greater declines than the general economy. Competition in the furniture industry could cost us sales and cause us to reduce prices. The retail specialty furniture business is highly competitive and includes competition from traditional furniture retailers and department stores as well as numerous discount furniture outlets. Our stores may face sharp price-cutting, as well as imitation and other forms of competition, and we cannot prevent or restrain others from utilizing a similar marketing format. Although we are the largest sofabed specialty retail dealer and specialty leather retailer in the United States, many of our competitors have considerably greater financial resources. A number of our store leases are month-to-month and accordingly the stores may need to halt operations on short notice. A number of our store leases are month-to-month. Accordingly, if, at the end of a monthly lease period, we are unable to negotiate favorable terms for the new lease period or unable to renew such lease, we may need to halt operations at such location on short notice, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing. Our ability to expand and support our business may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing. We may have difficulty obtaining debt or equity financing. We are currently a party to an amended Credit Agreement and a Security Agreement with Caye (the “Caye Credit Facility”), pursuant to which Caye agreed to provide us with $13.5 million of debt financing. Effective August 25, 2007 through September 22, 2007, Caye consented to temporarily increase the credit facility from $13.5 million to $14.8 million. As of August 25, 2007, we owed Caye approximately $14,759,000. Most of our assets are pledged to Caye as security for the amounts we owe under the Caye Credit Facility. From time to time, our financial position has made it difficult for us to obtain third party consumer financing. Inability to secure such financing may adversely affect sales. Substantially all of our assets have been pledged to Caye pursuant to our credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of the Caye Credit Facility, substantially all of our assets have been pledged to Caye as security for any amounts we owe under the Caye Credit Facility. In the event of any bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding against us, the assets that are pledged as collateral securing any 8 unpaid amounts must first be used to pay such amounts, as well as any other obligation secured by the pledged assets pursuant to the terms of the Caye Credit Facility, in full, before making any distributions to stockholders. In such event, you could lose all or a part of your investment. On July 7, 2007, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement and Second Amendment to Security Agreement (the “Amendment to Credit Agreement and Security Agreement”) with Caye, pursuant to which such agreements were amended to (1) increase the Credit Facility from $11.5 million to $13.5 million and (2) reduce the amount required to be maintained in deposit accounts to no less than $1 million. Harley J. Greenfield and current management are likely to retain control. As of November 16, 2007, Harley J. Greenfield, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and principal stockholder, beneficially owns approximately 19.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Approximately 37.2% of the outstanding common stock is beneficially owned by all officers and directors as a group, including Messrs. Greenfield and Seidner. Since the holders of our common stock do not have cumulative voting rights, such officers’ and directors’ ownership of our common stock will likely enable them to exercise significant influence in matters such as the election of our directors and other matters submitted for stockholder approval. Also, the relationship of such persons to the related company could serve to perpetuate management’s control in light of the related company’s relationship to us. Our future success depends heavily on two executives. Our future success will depend substantially upon the abilities of Harley J. Greenfield, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and one of our principal stockholders, as well as Rami Abada, our President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of Mr. Greenfield’s and/or Mr. Abada’s services could materially adversely affect our business and our prospects for the future. We do not have key man insurance on the lives of such individuals. We are prohibited from paying dividends on common stock. Under the terms of the Caye Credit Facility, we are prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Although we expect to continue to meet the minimum listing standards of the American Stock Exchange, which only requires that we meet certain requirements relating to shareholders’ equity, market capitalization, aggregate market value of publicly held shares and distribution requirements, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; a determination that our ordinary shares are a ‘‘penny stock’’ which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 9 