D. Risk Factors The Company is subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact its revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to the industries in which the Company operates while others are more specific to the Company. The table below sets out principal risks the Company has identified that could adversely affect it. See also the discussion of Forward-Looking Statements preceding Item 1. Risk Potential impact Clients The Group competes for clients in a highly-competitive industry and client loss may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s market share and its business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Competitors include large multinational advertising and marketing communication companies and regional and national marketing services companies, database marketing and modelling companies, telemarketers and internet companies. Service agreements with clients are generally terminable by the client on 90 days’ notice and many clients put their advertising and communications business up for competitive review from time to time. The ability to attract new clients and to retain or increase the amount of work from existing clients may also in some cases be limited by clients’ policies on conflicts of interest. The Group receives a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of large clients and the loss of these clients could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant percentage of the Group’s consolidated revenues. The Group’s 10 largest clients accounted for 17.4% of revenues in the year ended 31 December 2012. Clients generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing spend or cancel projects on short notice. The loss of one or more of the Group’s largest clients, if not replaced by new client accounts or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect the Group’s financial condition. Economic The Group’s businesses are subject to recessionary economic cycles. Many of the economies in which the Group operates (including the Eurozone) currently have significant economic challenges. Reduction in client spending or postponing spending on the services offered by the Group or switching of client expenditure to non-traditional media and renegotiation of contract terms can lead to reduced profitability and cash flow. Financial Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely impact the Group’s consolidated results. The Company’s reporting currency is pounds sterling. Given the Group’s significant international operations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can affect the Group’s consolidated results. The interest rates and fees payable by the Group in respect of certain of its borrowings are, in part, influenced by the credit ratings issued by the international debt rating agencies. If the Company’s financial performance and outlook materially deteriorate, a ratings downgrade could occur and the interest rates and fees payable on certain of the Company’s revolving credit facilities and certain of the Group’s bonds could be increased. The Group is subject to credit risk through the default of a client or other counterparty. The Group is generally paid in arrears for its services. Invoices are typically payable within 30 to 60 days. The Group commits to media and production purchases on behalf of some of its clients as principal or agent depending on the client and market circumstances. If a client is unable to pay sums due, media and production companies may look to the Group to pay such amounts to which it committed as an agent on behalf of those clients. Mergers & Acquisitions The Group may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions and may be unsuccessful in integrating any acquired operations with its existing businesses. The Group regularly reviews potential acquisitions of businesses that are complementary to its operations and clients’ needs. If material risks are not identified prior to acquisition or the Group experiences difficulties in integrating an acquired business, it may not realise the expected benefits from such an acquisition and the Group’s financial condition could be adversely affected. Goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on the Group’s balance sheet with respect to acquired companies may become impaired. The Group has a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on its balance sheet with respect to acquired companies. The Group annually tests the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles for impairment. The estimates and assumptions about results of operations and cash flows made in connection with impairment testing could differ from future results of operations and cash flows. Future events could cause the Group to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation have become impaired which could have a material impact on the Group’s financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Risk Potential impact Operational The Group operates in 110 countries and is exposed to the risks of doing business internationally. The Group’s international operations are subject to the following risk factors: (i) restrictions and/or changes in taxation on repatriation of earnings; (ii) economic, social or political instability within different countries, regions and markets; (iii) changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, such as those on foreign ownership of assets or data usage; and (iv) uncertainty or potential ineffectiveness or lack of enforcement in relation to the Group’s client service agreements or other contractual rights. People The Group’s performance could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract and retain key talent or had inadequate talent management and succession planning for key management roles. The Group is highly dependent on the talent, creative abilities and technical skills of our personnel as well as their relationships with clients. The Group is vulnerable to the loss of personnel to competitors and clients leading to disruption to the business. Regulatory/Legal The Group may be subject to regulations restricting its activities or effecting changes in taxation. Governments, government agencies and industry self-regulatory bodies from time to time adopt statutes and regulations that directly or indirectly affect the form, content and scheduling of advertising, public relations and public affairs and market research or otherwise limit the scope of the activities of the Group and its clients which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. Changes in tax laws and international tax treaties or their application may also adversely affect the Group’s reported results. The Group may be exposed to liabilities from allegations that certain of its clients’ advertising claims may be false or misleading or that its clients products may be defective or harmful. The Group works for a large number of clients across a broad spectrum of industries and end markets, some of which may become subject to litigation. As a consequence of providing services to such clients, the Group may itself become involved as a defendant in litigation brought against its clients by third parties, including its clients, competitors or consumers or governmental or regulatory authorities. The Group is subject to strict anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation and enforcement in the countries in which it operates. The Group may be exposed to liabilities in the event of breaches of anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation in all of the 110 countries in which it operates. The Group is subject to strict data protection and privacy legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates and relies extensively on information technology systems. The Group operates on a largely decentralised basis with a large number of different agencies and operating entities and the resulting size and diversity of the operational systems increases the vulnerability of such systems to breakdown or malicious intrusion. The Group may be subject to investigative or enforcement action or legal claims or incur fines, damages, or costs if the Group fails adequately to protect data or observe privacy legislation in every instance. A system breakdown or intrusion could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Civil liabilities or judgements against the Company or its directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state securities laws may not be enforceable in the U.S. or in England and Wales or in Jersey. The Company is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of Jersey. Some of the Company’s directors and officers reside outside of the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of the directly owned assets of the Company are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process within the United States against the Company or its directors and officers or to enforce against them any of the judgements, including those obtained in original actions or in actions to enforce judgements of the U.S. courts, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. 6 Table of Contents 