ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We may be unable to purchase adequate supplies of pearls The principal raw materials used by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) are pearls. As pearls are commodities and their value is subject to prevailing market conditions, buyers and sellers of pearls do not customarily enter into any long-term contracts. The Group purchases different types of pearls from different sources around the world but does not currently have any fixed term purchase contracts with any pearl farmers or suppliers. Rather, the Group negotiates the purchase of pearls on an as needed basis at prevailing market prices. If the availability or cost of pearls is adversely affected (for example, due to a decrease in the number of suppliers, or a reduction in the overall availability, whether due to a lack of supply, the loss of a supply contract, or increased demand from our competitors), we may have to bear greater expenses for, or be unable to acquire, adequate supplies of pearls of the quality or on the terms required by the Group. Any such adverse changes may require us to increase prices or stop producing certain products and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Changes in climate or environmental conditions may lead to fluctuations in pearl prices Any adverse change in the climate or environmental conditions in the areas where we obtain our source of supply of pearls may have an adverse effect on pearl harvesting, the supply of pearls and the business of the Group. Over the years, the Group has developed relationships with a network of suppliers in an attempt to ensure a steady supply of different varieties of pearls. In order to reduce the impact of fluctuations in pearl prices, the Group has adopted policies aimed at both diversifying its product range as well as the sources and suppliers from which it purchases pearls. In so doing, the Group believes it is less susceptible to fluctuations in pearl supply due to changes in climate or environmental conditions in any particular region of supply. However, pearls remain the Group’s primary product. Any adverse change in the climate or environmental conditions in any region of supply of pearls may have an adverse effect on the prices of pearls in the entire market and may adversely affect the profitability of the Group. Changes in the purchasing decisions of the Group’s customers may affect its future operating results The Group’s customer network consists principally of wholesale distributors and mass merchandisers in Europe, the United States, Hong Kong and other Asian countries. In accordance with industry practice, the Group generally does not have long-term sales arrangements with its customers. As a result, short-term changes to these customers’ purchasing decisions could affect the Group’s year-to-year sales volumes. In addition, the Group’s customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period. As a result, it may be difficult for the Group to forecast its revenues in future periods. Because the Group’s current expense levels are based in part on its expectations for future revenues, the Group may be unable to adjust our purchases of supplies, and as a result reduce our expenses, in a timely manner in response to unexpected disruptions in purchase orders from customers. This could have a material and adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Global or regional recessions may adversely affect consumer purchases of the Group’s products The Group’s revenues are dependent on cycles in general global and regional economic conditions and macroeconomic factors such as employment levels, salary levels, business conditions, tax rates and credit availability, all of which affect consumer spending on discretionary items such as jewelry, which are perceived as luxuries. Volumes and values of sales of jewelry tend to decrease faster than sales and values of essential goods during economic downturns. Declining confidence in the global economy or regional economies where we are active could therefore adversely affect consumers’ ability and willingness to purchase the Group’s products. Regionally, purchases made by the Group’s customers in North America, Europe and Hong Kong and other Asian countries accounted for approximately 25.7%, 41.6% and 26.1% of the Group’s total revenues in fiscal year 2008. Should any of these economies suffer a serious economic downturn, it could have a material and adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign Currency Exposure The Group makes the majority of its purchases in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese Yen and Renminbi, and denominates its sales in either U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. Accordingly, changes in currency exchange rates (including revaluation of the Renminbi) and costs of conversion between U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars and such other currencies may have an adverse effect on the Group’s business. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue that could impact the Group’s cash flow and operating results. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could also have a material adverse effect on the Group’s profitability. The implementation of new tax laws may significantly increase the Group’s income tax liability The Company’s subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions, including the PRC, and are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Any increase in the Group’s foreign tax liability may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s profitability. For example, on March 16, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress, the PRC legislature, adopted a new tax law, the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China (the ”Enterprise Income Tax Law”), which became effective January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the State Council promulgated the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law (the ”Implementation Regulations”), which also became effective January l, 2008. The Enterprise Income Tax Law imposes a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises incorporated or resident in China, including foreign investment enterprises, and eliminates many tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatments formerly applicable to foreign investment enterprises. The Group has one PRC subsidiary, its primary manufacturing subsidiary, which enjoyed a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% on its taxable income prior to and during fiscal year 2008. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and the Implementation Regulations, increases in income tax rates will continue gradually over a period of five years until this subsidiary pays income tax at a rate of 25%. Additional increases in the Group’s tax liabilities in the PRC or other jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s profitability. General Real Estate Investment Risks The Group owns certain real estate investments. Real estate investments, like many other types of long-term investments, have historically experienced significant fluctuations in value, and specific market conditions and cycles may result in occasional or permanent reductions in the value of the Group’s investments. Property cash flows and the marketability and value of real property will depend on many factors beyond the control of the Group, including, without limitation: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates or financial markets; • fluctuating local real estate conditions and changes in local laws and regulations; • changes or promulgation and enforcement of governmental regulations relating to land use and zoning, environmental, occupational and safety matters; 16 Table of Contents • changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • existence of uninsured or uninsurable risks; and • natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po have substantial control over our Company and can affect decisions made by our stockholders Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po beneficially own 3,437,501 shares of Common Stock, respectively, as of June 26, 2008. They control a majority of our total voting power (based on 6,382,582 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of June 26, 2008). In addition, they beneficially own 100,000 Series A Preferred Stock of the Company which entitles them to a fixed number of votes of 3,191,225 shares of Common Stock (subject to adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, combinations, and occurrence of similar events). As a result, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po have the requisite voting power to exert significant influence over actions which require stockholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including the election of directors, potential acquisitions and sales or otherwise to prevent or delay changes in control of our Company that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po. The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors The market price for the Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the period from April 1, 2008 to May 31, 2008, the closing prices of the Common Stock as reported on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) ranged from a high of $8.2 per share on May 16, 2008 to a low of $6.7 per share on April 1, 2008. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include and are not necessarily limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results from guidance provided by us; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts or research firms; • changes in general economic conditions; and • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other competitors. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. Any future outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian influenza or any other epidemic may adversely affect the Group’s operational results In the first half of 2003, certain regions of Asia, including China, encountered an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia. There have also been media reports regarding the spread of the H5N1 virus, or avian influenza, among birds and in particular poultry, as well as some isolated cases in countries outside Hong Kong and China of transmission of the virus to humans. If an outbreak of SARS, avian influenza or any other epidemic occurs in the future and any of the Group’s employees or customers are suspected of having contracted SARS, avian influenza or any other epidemic, the Group may be required to quarantine certain employees suspected of infection, as well as others that have come into contact with these employees. Furthermore, such an outbreak would likely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which would also adversely affect our business operations. Other risks We have attempted to identify material risk factors currently affecting our business and company. However, additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may occur or become material. These risks could impair our business operations or adversely affect revenues, cash flow or profitability. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 