ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We face a number of risks related to the recent financial crisis and severe tightening in the global credit markets The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing may increase, the terms of borrowings may become onerous and it may become more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. The financial crisis could also impact our business in other ways, including: Economic Downturns in the Markets in Which We Operate. Sustained downturns in the Asia, United States and Europe markets in which we operate may result in a continued decline in demand for our products and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations over the next several fiscal quarters and possibly beyond. Potential Reduction or Delay of Purchases and Orders by Customers. Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations, which could have a negative result on our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity Issues with Our Customers. Because we generally grant credit to our customers, we have a significant amount of accounts receivables. In January 2009, one of our existing customers in the United States filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. If other customers encounter liquidity issues or are forced to seek bankruptcy protection, then we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for doubtful accounts increased by HK$27.1 million, or 158.1%, from HK$17.1 million as of March 31, 2008 to HK$44.2 million as of March 31, 2009. Allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of gross accounts receivable increased from 10.4% as of March 31, 2008 to 30.9% as of March 31, 2009. 23 Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials from our suppliers. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, or otherwise materially change the terms of sale, and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, credit constraints of key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. Reduction of Discretionary Spending by Retail Customers. Our results of operations are impacted by the discretionary spending of retail customers, both of our pearl and jewelry products and the products of our tenants. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Retail customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. A few large suppliers account for a significant percentage of our pearl supplies, and we may be unable to purchase adequate supplies of pearls The principal raw materials used by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) are pearls. As pearls are commodities and their value is subject to prevailing market conditions, buyers and sellers of pearls do not customarily enter into any long-term contracts. The Group purchases different types of pearls from different sources around the world but does not currently have any fixed term purchase contracts with any pearl farmers or suppliers. Rather, the Group negotiates the purchase of pearls on an as needed basis at prevailing market prices. In addition, a few large suppliers account for a significant percentage of our pearl supplies. In fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, our five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 50.0%, 47.1% and 51.9% of our total purchases, with the largest supplier accounting for approximately 21.3%, 16.2% and 16.3% of our total purchases. If the availability or cost of pearls is adversely affected (for example, due to a decrease in one or our significant suppliers, or a reduction in the overall availability, whether due to a lack of supply, the loss of a supply contract, or increased demand from our competitors), we may have to bear greater expenses for, or be unable to acquire, adequate supplies of pearls of the quality or on the terms required by the Group. Any such adverse changes may require us to increase prices or stop producing certain products and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. We have significant outstanding bank borrowings, and we may not be able to arrange adequate financing when they mature As of March 31, 2009, we had HK$493.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and HK$192.1 million in outstanding borrowings (denominated in Renminbi), of which approximately HK$90.4 million was due within one year. We might not be able to obtain extensions of these borrowings in the future as they mature. In the event we are unable to obtain extensions of these borrowings, or if we are unable to obtain sufficient alternative funding at reasonable terms to make repayments, we will have to repay these borrowings with cash generated by our operating activities. Our business might not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay these borrowings, some of which are secured by significant amounts of our assets. In addition, repaying these borrowings with cash generated by our operating activities will divert our financial resources from the requirements of our ongoing operations and future growth, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. 24 Disruptions in the financial market may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial institutions in the United States and Europe, reduced lending activity, decreased liquidity and higher costs in the credit markets, may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit that we have already arranged, and the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future, including any financing necessary to complete China Pearls and Jewellery City, our pearl market center under development in the PRC. In this regard, as a consequence of the on-going global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the PRC has also recently experienced a tightening in credit markets. We cannot assure you that recent PRC government fiscal stimulus measures in response to disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us. We operate in a highly competitive industry The pearl and jewelry industry is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of local and international pearl and jewelry manufacturers and wholesalers. Because of the breadth and depth of this competition, we are constantly under competitive pressure that both constrains pricing and requires extensive merchandising efforts in order for us to remain competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of our reputation for high quality products, brand recognition and distinctive merchandise. Our success is also dependent on our ability to both react to and create customer demand for our pearl and jewelry products. Certain of our competitors, especially jewelry retailers, are larger, have been in existence for a longer period of time, have achieved greater brand recognition and a greater market share in the markets in which we operate and have substantially greater financial, distribution and other resources than we do. Due to the above factors, we cannot assure you that we can continue to compete favorably in this highly competitive industry. Changes in climate or environmental conditions may lead to fluctuations in pearl prices Any adverse change in the climate or environmental conditions in the areas where we obtain our source of supply of pearls may have an adverse effect on pearl harvesting, the supply of pearls and the business of the Group. Over the years, the Group has developed relationships with a network of suppliers in an attempt to ensure a steady supply of different varieties of pearls. In order to reduce the impact of fluctuations in pearl prices, the Group has adopted policies aimed at both diversifying its product range as well as the sources and suppliers from which it purchases pearls. In so doing, the Group believes it is less susceptible to fluctuations in pearl supply due to changes in climate or environmental conditions in any particular region of supply. However, pearls remain the Group’s primary product. Any adverse change in the climate or environmental conditions in any region of supply of pearls may have an adverse effect on the prices of pearls in the entire market and may adversely affect the profitability of the Group. 25 Changes in the purchasing decisions of the Group’s customers may affect its future operating results The Group’s customer network consists principally of wholesale distributors and mass merchandisers in Europe, the United States, Hong Kong and other Asian countries. In accordance with industry practice, the Group generally does not have long-term sales arrangements with its customers. As a result, short-term changes to these customers’ purchasing decisions could affect the Group’s year-to-year sales volumes. In addition, the Group’s customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period. As a result, it may be difficult for the Group to forecast its revenues in future periods. Because the Group’s current expense levels are based in part on its expectations for future revenues, the Group may be unable to adjust our purchases of supplies, and as a result reduce our expenses, in a timely manner in response to unexpected disruptions in purchase orders from customers. While the Group has not experienced any unexpected disruptions in purchase orders from customers as a result of the current economic crisis, any such disruptions in the future could have a material and adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Our sales could be negatively impacted by the actions or circumstances of one or more key customers leading to material fluctuations in revenues or a substantial reduction in orders for our products We currently sell a substantial portion of our pearls and jewelry products to a limited number of customers. In fiscal years 2009 and 2008, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 47.4% % and 41.9%, respectively, of our total sales, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 15.1% and 10.4%, respectively, of our total sales. Dependence on a limited number of customers exposes us to the risks that one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; loss of one or more of our significant customers due to disputes, dissatisfaction with our products or otherwise, and our failure to attract additional or replacement customers; and failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels Recently, we have decreased inventory purchases in response to a decrease in demand in the United States and Asia markets. We may be unable to sell the products that we have in our inventory. The current economic environment has made accurate projecting of inventory levels increasingly challenging. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, or the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, all of which could adversely affect our gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our pearls and jewelry products or if our suppliers fail to supply pearls in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. 26 Global or regional recessions may adversely affect consumer purchases of the Group’s products The Group’s revenues are dependent on cycles in general global and regional economic conditions and macroeconomic factors such as employment levels, salary levels, business conditions, tax rates and credit availability, all of which affect consumer spending on discretionary items such as jewelry, which are perceived as luxuries. Volumes and values of sales of jewelry tend to decrease faster than sales and values of essential goods during economic downturns. Declining confidence in the global economy or regional economies where we are active could therefore adversely affect consumers’ ability and willingness to purchase the Group’s products. Regionally, purchases made by the Group’s customers in North America, Europe and Hong Kong and other Asian countries accounted for approximately 22.1%, 48.3% and 21.5% of the Group’s total revenues in fiscal year 2009. Should any of these economies suffer a serious economic downturn, it could have a material and adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to currency exchange fluctuations The Group makes the majority of its purchases in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese Yen and Renminbi, and denominates its sales in either U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. Accordingly, changes in currency exchange rates (including revaluation of the Renminbi) and costs of conversion between U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars and such other currencies may have an adverse effect on the Group’s business. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue that could impact the Group’s cash flow and operating results. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could also have a material adverse effect on the Group’s profitability. The implementation of new tax laws may significantly increase the Group’s income tax liability We are a holding company incorporated in Nevada. We also have intermediate holding companies incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Bermuda and Hong Kong, and subsidiaries that operate in the PRC. As a result, any change in the policies or regulations regarding taxation in the British Virgin Islands, Bermuda, Hong Kong or the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. On March 16, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress, the PRC legislature, adopted a new tax law, the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China, or the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which became effective January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the State Council promulgated the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the Implementation Regulations, which also became effective January 1, 2008. The Enterprise Income Tax Law imposes a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises incorporated or resident in China, including foreign investment enterprises, and eliminates many tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatments formerly applicable to foreign investment enterprises. Man Hing Limited, our primary manufacturing subsidiary in China, enjoyed a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 20% on its taxable income during fiscal year 2009. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and the Implementation Regulations, Man Hing Limited’s income tax rates will increase gradually over a period of five years until it pays income tax at a rate of 25%. 27 Under the Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises, effective prior to January 1, 2008, any dividends payable by foreign-invested enterprises to their non-PRC investors were exempt from any PRC withholding income tax. Under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, China-sourced income of foreign enterprises, such as dividends paid by a PRC subsidiary to its overseas parent, will normally be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10%, unless there are applicable treaties that reduce such rate. Neither the British Virgin Islands nor Bermuda has a tax treaty with China entitling us to any withholding tax lower than 10%. Hong Kong, where some of our intermediate holding companies are incorporated, has an arrangement with China under which the dividend withholding tax rate is reduced to 5% if a Hong Kong resident enterprise owns over 25% of the PRC company distributing the dividends. If the applicable Hong Kong intermediate holding company is regarded as a non-resident enterprise and owns at least a 25% share in the relevant PRC subsidiary, dividends paid by such PRC subsidiary would be subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 5%, provided that the Hong Kong subsidiary and we are not considered to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, as described below. The new Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, also provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their global income. Under the Implementation Regulations, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have, in substance, overall management control over such aspects as the production and business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. Pursuant to this definition, we believe our “de facto management bodies” are located in Hong Kong. However, if we are considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise under the above definition, then our global income will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our shares may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws Under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law and the Implementation Regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% applies to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” (and that do not have an establishment or place of business in China, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business) to the extent such dividends are sourced within China and the enterprise that distributes dividends is considered a “resident enterprise” in China. Therefore, if we are considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise for tax purposes, any dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders as well as gains realized by such shareholders from the transfer of our shares may be regarded as China-sourced income and as a result be subject to 10% PRC withholding tax. We intend to take the position that any dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders will not be subject to a withholding tax in the PRC. As the new Enterprise Income Tax Law and the Implementation Rules have only recently taken effect, it is uncertain how they will be implemented by the relevant PRC tax authorities. In addition, a number of detailed implementation regulations are still in the process of promulgation. If dividend payments from our PRC operating subsidiaries to our overseas intermediate holding companies, and from our overseas intermediate holding companies to us are subject to PRC withholding tax, our financial condition, results of operations and the amount of dividends available to pay our shareholders may be adversely affected. If dividends we pay to our overseas shareholders or gains realized by such shareholders from the transfer of our shares are subject to PRC withholding tax, it may materially and adversely affect your investment return and the value of your investment in us. 28 We are exposed to general real estate investment risks The Group owns certain real estate investments. Real estate investments, like many other types of long-term investments, have historically experienced significant fluctuations in value, and specific market conditions and cycles may result in occasional or permanent reductions in the value of the Group’s investments. Property cash flows and the marketability and value of real property will depend on many factors beyond the control of the Group, including, without limitation: adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; changes in interest rates or financial markets; fluctuating local real estate conditions and changes in local laws and regulations; changes or promulgation and enforcement of governmental regulations relating to land use and zoning, environmental, occupational and safety matters; changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; existence of uninsured or uninsurable risks; and natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism. We may not be able to complete China Pearls and Jewellery City or commence or complete our properties planned for future real estate projects on time or within budget Our real estate projects involve acquiring land-use rights for large plots of land, many of which have existing structures and residents, from municipal and provincial governments of the PRC. Other properties we may develop in the future may also involve similar circumstances. Acquiring these development rights, converting them into land-use rights and committing the financial and managerial resources to develop the land involves significant risks. Before a real estate development project generates any revenue, we must make a variety of material expenditures, including to acquire the development rights and to construct the required infrastructure. As of March 31, 2009, China Pearls and Jewellery City Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, had incurred approximately HK$793 million in development costs, primarily for the construction of phase one of China Pearls and Jewellery City. It generally takes several years for a planned real estate project to generate revenue, and we cannot assure you that our real estate projects will achieve positive cash flow. As a result, our current and future real estate development activities may be exposed to the following risks: we may lease or sell developed properties at below expected rental rates or sales prices, and we may experience delays in the sale or leasing of developed properties; we may be unable to complete construction of our real estate projects on schedule, or on budget, due to a variety of factors including shortages of materials, equipment, technical skills and labor, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, labor disputes, disputes with contractors and sub-contractors, accidents, changes in government priorities and policies, changes in market conditions, delays in the relocation process, delays in obtaining the requisite licenses, permits and approvals from the relevant authorities and other problems and circumstances, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs; 29 occupancy rates, rents and sales prices at our real estate properties may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, and may result in our investments being less profitable than we expected or not profitable at all; the services rendered by our contractors may not always meet our quality requirements, and negligence or poor work quality by any contractors may result in defects in our buildings or trade center units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims; since it normally takes several years for us to complete a real estate project, we expect that we will be affected by increases in the costs of construction materials and the costs of other goods and services, most significantly labor costs. we may delay, or change the structure of, real estate projects and as a result we may lose deposits paid to participate in the land tender process or fail to recover expenses already incurred; we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits, rights and authorizations, which could result in increased costs with respect to a project; The occurrence of any of these circumstances, most of which are beyond our control, could delay the completion of our real estate projects, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could cause the market value of our securities to decline. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain financing to complete China Pearls and Jewellery City or implement our business strategies We intend to invest approximately HK$88.6 million and HK$28.5 million for capital expenditures in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, respectively, nearly all of which will be dedicated to the construction of the phase one pearl market center for China Pearls and Jewellery City. We intend to finance these capital expenditures with cash reserves, cash flows from operations, dividend payments from subsidiaries and, if required, borrowings. We may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fully fund our capital expenditures for China Pearls and Jewellery City or other projects we may undertake. We may need additional funding to implement our business strategy. If we are unable to generate enough cash to pay for these projects we may need to raise additional funds. We may not be able to raise any additional funds on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we can not generate enough cash, or find alternative sources of funding to complete these projects, our business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The cyclical nature of the real estate industry could adversely affect our results of operations The results of our real estate operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the real estate industry in the PRC. Property values and rents are affected by, among other factors, supply and demand of comparable properties, interest rates, unemployment rates, inflation, the rate of economic growth, tax laws and political and economic developments in the PRC. We cannot assure you that property values and rents will not decline in the future. In addition, increased competition from other pearl processing and pearl market centers could adversely affect our rents and occupancy rates at Man Sang Industrial City and China Pearls and Jewellery City as well as sales prices for our units at China Pearls and Jewellery City. Furthermore, a significant downturn in demand for pearl and jewelry products could adversely affect demand for our units at Man Sang Industrial City and China Pearls and Jewellery City. A significant downturn in demand for our units would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 If we fail to obtain the necessary land-use rights, we will not be able to continue the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City We entered into a master agreement with the Zhuji Shanxiahu People’s Government in January 2006 for the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City. Pursuant to this master agreement, the Zhuji Shanxiahu People’s Government has identified land which is suitable for the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City. However, the signing of the master agreement does not guarantee that we will obtain all of the land identified therein, which is transferred by public tender, auction or listing for sale. As of March 31, 2009, we had obtained the land-use rights for approximately 300,000 square meters of land for the development of China Pearls and Jewellery City, including substantially all of the land-use rights for our phase one pearl market center. We cannot assure you that land administration authorities will grant us the remaining 900,000 square meters of land corresponding to the land identified in our master agreement for the development of the remaining phases of China Pearls and Jewellery City in a timely manner, or at all. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the land at our desired price. If we are not successful in obtaining the land-use rights for the development of the remaining phases of China Pearls and Jewellery City, we will not be able to develop China Pearls and Jewellery City as planned, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period due to variations in the proceeds received from sales of pearl market center units in China Pearls and Jewellery City Our policy will be to maintain an optimal mix between pearl market center units for sale and pearl market center units held as investment properties at China Pearls and Jewellery City. Accordingly, our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period depending upon the proportion and gross floor area of pearl market center units that are sold or leased, as well as when construction of pearl market center units is completed. In addition, because China Pearls and Jewellery City is a large-scale, multi-phase project to be developed over the course of several years, the selling prices of pearl market center units are also subject to fluctuation, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, and we are susceptible to changes in policies related to the real estate market in the PRC In order to develop and operate China Pearls and Jewellery City, we must obtain various permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals from the relevant administrative authorities at various stages of development, including land-use rights documents, planning permits, construction permits, and certificates or confirmation of completion and acceptance. Each approval is dependent on the satisfaction of certain pre-conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fulfill the pre-conditions necessary to obtain required governmental approvals, or that we will be able to adapt to new laws, regulations or policies that may come into effect from time to time with respect to the real estate market in general or the particular processes with respect to the grant of approvals in China. There may also be delays on the part of relevant administrative bodies in reviewing our applications and granting approvals. If we fail to obtain, or experience material delays in obtaining, the requisite governmental approvals, the development, sale and lease of China Pearls and Jewellery City pearl market center units could be substantially disrupted, which would result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Demand for our units at China Pearls and Jewellery City and Man Sang Industrial City has been and may continue to be negatively affected by the recent financial market and economic crisis, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition The recent global financial crisis has adversely affected the United States and other world economies. Although the PRC government has adopted increasingly flexible macroeconomic policies, including an announced fiscal stimulus package, aimed at offsetting the slowdown brought about by the financial crisis, as the financial crisis has broadened and intensified, the growth of China’s economy has been negatively impacted. The financial crisis has had a negative impact on the manufacturing activities and exports by manufacturers, including manufacturers and suppliers of pearl and jewelry products, which are our principal tenants. Current and potential tenants and purchasers of our units at China Pearls and Jewellery City and current and potential tenants of our units at Man Sang Industrial City may be increasingly affected by the economic crisis and, as a result, may be unable to sustain their business operations or make agreed upon rental or purchase payments for our units, all of which could lead to a reduction in demand and profit margins and delay in rental and purchase payments. Although, as of March 31, 2009 we had not experienced any material defaults or delinquencies by tenants of China Pearls and Jewellery City or Man Sang Industrial City, we cannot assure you that we will not experience material tenant defaults or delinquencies in the future. PRC tax authorities may challenge the basis on which we pay our land appreciation tax obligations and our results of operations and cash flows may be affected. Under PRC laws and regulations, PRC enterprises engaging in property development are subject to land appreciation tax, or LAT, which is levied by the local tax authorities. All taxable gains from the sale or transfer of land use rights, buildings and their attached facilities in the PRC are subject to LAT at progressive rates ranging from 30% to 60%. Provisioning for LAT requires our management to use a significant amount of judgment with respect to, among other things, the anticipated total proceeds to be derived from the sale or transfer of land use rights and buildings, the total appreciation of land value and various deductions to the LAT. If the LAT provisions we make are substantially lower than the actual LAT amounts assessed by the tax authorities in the future, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. Our principal stockholders have substantial control over our Company and can affect decisions made by our stockholders Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po beneficially own 3,437,501 shares of Common Stock, respectively, as of June 11, 2009. They control a majority of our total voting power (based on 6,382,582 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of June 11, 2009). In addition, they beneficially own 100,000 Series A Preferred Stock of the Company which entitles them to a fixed number of votes of 3,191,225 shares of Common Stock (subject to adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, combinations, and occurrence of similar events). As a result, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po have the requisite voting power to exert significant influence over actions which require stockholder approval and generally to direct our affairs, including the election of directors, potential acquisitions and sales or otherwise to prevent or delay changes in control of our Company that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po. In addition, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po have substantial interests in other market and trade centers in the PRC, although these market and trade centers are unrelated to the pearl and jewelry industry. As a result of the above, the interests of our principal stockholders may differ with those of our other shareholders. 32 We rely on the experience, expertise and managerial and technical skills of our core management team Our past success is largely attributable to the experience, expertise and managerial and technical skills of our core management team. In particular, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky, our President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Cheng Tai Po, our Vice Chairman, each have over 25 years of experience in management and knowledge in the pearl and jewelry industry and over 10 years of experience in the property investment and development industry. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po are responsible for our overall management and the formulation of our corporate policies and business strategies. Our other executive officers and key personnel also possess substantial experience in business management and operations and in-depth industry knowledge and understanding and have made significant contributions to our business development. If one or more of the members of our core management team or our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new members of our core management team or executive officers, in particular those with the in-depth industry knowledge and experience possessed by our current team. In addition, if any of our executive join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors The market price for the Common Stock has been volatile and the market price for the Common Stock may continue to be volatile. For example, during the period from April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2009, the closing prices of the Common Stock as reported on the NYSE Amex (formerly known as The American Stock Exchange) ranged from a high of $8.2 per share on May 16, 2008 to a low of $1.0 per share on March 9, 2009. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include and are not necessarily limited to: actual or anticipated variations in operating results from guidance provided by us; announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts or research firms; changes in general economic conditions; and changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other competitors. 33 Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could result in an inability to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered deficiencies in our internal controls and, based on our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year covered by this report, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2009. For a description of this material weakness, see “Item 9A – Controls and Procedures – Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” In addition, we may in the future discover deficiencies in our internal controls. Evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future may lead our management to determine that internal control over financial reporting is no longer effective. Such conclusions may result from our failure to implement controls for changes in our business, or deterioration in the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement effective new controls to address changes in our business could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Risks Relating to the PRC and Hong Kong Previous macroeconomic measures taken by the PRC government could have adverse economic consequences, and recent fiscal stimulus measures may not offset the decline in the rate of economic growth in the PRC A portion of our assets are located in China and Hong Kong and a portion of our revenue is sourced from China and Hong Kong. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are to a significant degree subject to economic, political and legal developments in China and Hong Kong. Previous macroeconomic measures taken by the PRC government to manage economic growth could have adverse economic consequences, and recent fiscal stimulus measures may not be successful in offsetting a decline in the rate of economic growth in the PRC. In previous years, the PRC government has periodically taken measures to slow economic growth to a more manageable level in response to concerns about China’s historical high growth rate in industrial production, bank credit, fixed investment and money supply. These measures have included macroeconomic measures to control perceived overinvestment in the real property market. More recently, along with a decline in economic growth worldwide, the rate of growth of the PRC economy has slowed down. In response to the global economic downturn, and a resulting slowdown in the PRC economy, the PRC government has adopted increasingly flexible macroeconomic policies, including an announced fiscal stimulus package, aimed at offsetting the slowdown brought about by the financial crisis. 34 These policies include measures specifically designed to encourage development of the domestic real property market, which represents a reversal on policies implemented since 2003 designed to tighten control on the real property market. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government’s fiscal stimulus package will be successful in offsetting the slowdown brought by the economic downturn and deterioration in the global credit markets, or that restrictive measures already in place will not adversely affect our business. Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the PRC government may adversely affect our business Our business and operations in the PRC are governed by the PRC legal system. The PRC legal system is a codified system with written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. The PRC government is still in the process of developing its legal system. As the PRC economy has traditionally developed at a faster pace than its legal system, a certain degree of uncertainty exists in connection with whether and how existing laws and regulations will apply to certain events or circumstances. Some of the laws and regulations, and the interpretation, implementation and enforcement thereof, are still at an experimental stage and are therefore subject to policy changes. Further, precedents on the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of the PRC laws and regulations are limited, and court decisions in the PRC do not have any binding effect on lower courts. Accordingly, the outcome of dispute resolution may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of the laws in the PRC, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court or another jurisdiction. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position Our real estate operations are conducted in the PRC and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected by economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: the amount of government involvement; the level of development; the growth rate; the control of foreign exchange; and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 35 The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. On May 18, 2007, China’s central bank announced that it would allow Renminbi to fluctuate more during each day’s foreign exchange rate trading. These changes in policy have resulted in an approximately 17.5% appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and March 23, 2009. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future adjustment or revaluation have increased and could further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as we rely partially on dividends paid to us by certain of our subsidiaries in the PRC, any significant adjustment or revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from our overseas sales into Renminbi for our operations in the PRC, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively Certain portions of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our Common Stock. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC Government could take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. 36 Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with PRC Government authorities. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, and if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. We are a holding company and rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our funding requirements We conduct all of our operations through our operating subsidiaries. Most of our assets are held by, and substantially all of our earnings and cash flows are attributable to our operating subsidiaries. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends depends on business considerations and regulatory restrictions, including cash flow, articles of association of these companies and shareholders’ agreements to which they are parties. We cannot assure you that our operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient earnings and cash flows to pay dividends or otherwise distribute sufficient funds to enable us to declare dividends. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries in the PRC to pay dividends to their shareholders is subject to the requirements of PRC law. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Dividends may not be paid until cumulative prior years’ losses are made up. As a result, if our subsidiaries in the PRC incur losses, such losses may impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us, which would restrict our ability to distribute dividends and to service our indebtedness. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to make monthly contributions to the social security plan maintained for their employees, consisting of pension benefits, personal injury insurance and medical and unemployment benefits. In addition, each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to its statutory surplus reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. Any future outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian influenza or any other epidemic may adversely affect our operational results In the first half of 2003, certain regions of Asia, including China, encountered an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia. There have also been media reports regarding the spread of the H5N1 virus, or avian influenza, among birds and in particular poultry, as well as some isolated cases in countries outside Hong Kong and China of transmission of the virus to humans. Further, the World Health Organization in April 2009 raised its pandemic alert level in response to an outbreak of influenza A caused by the H1N1 virus that originated in Mexico, which resulted in a number of confirmed cases worldwide. If an outbreak of SARS, avian influenza, influenza A H1N1 or any other epidemic occurs in the future and any of our employees or customers are suspected of having contracted SARS, avian influenza or any other epidemic, we may be required to quarantine certain employees suspected of infection, as well as others that have come into contact with these employees. Furthermore, such an outbreak would likely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which would also adversely affect our business operations. 37 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 