ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Sources of Pearl Supply The principal raw materials used by the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) are pearls. As pearls are commodities and their value is subject to prevailing market conditions, it is a customary practice in the pearl market that buyers and sellers of pearls do not normally enter into any long term contracts. The Group currently does not have any fixed term purchase contracts with any pearl farmers and suppliers. The Group purchases different types of pearls from different sources around the world. With its long established history in the pearl industry, the Group has established a good relationship with pearl farmers and suppliers. The Group negotiates the purchase of pearls on an as needed basis at prevailing market prices. However, there can be no assurance that pearls will be available from its suppliers in the quantities, of the quality and on the terms required by the Group. Climate and Environmental Conditions; Pearl Price Fluctuation Changes in supply of pearls may have a material effect on the business of the Group. Any adverse change in climate and environmental conditions at the source regions of pearls may have an adverse effect on pearl harvesting and hence the supply of pearls. Over the years, the Group has developed relationships with a network of suppliers to ensure a continuous supply of different types of pearls. The Group has adopted a policy of diversification of sources under which pearls are purchased from different suppliers in different countries or regions so that the Group is less susceptible to changes in raw material supply due to the changes in climate and environmental conditions at any particular source region. The prices of pearls fluctuate according to demand and supply conditions in the market. Any significant increase in the prices of pearls may affect the profitability of the Group. Hence, the Group continues to expand its product range in order to reduce any impact of price fluctuations of any type of pearls. Change in Consumer Preference A change in consumer preferences from pearls to other precious stones and metals may soften demand for some of the Group’s products and may result in decreased revenues and growth. While the Group attempts to offer a diverse product range to minimize the effects of a negative change in consumer preferences, there can be no assurance that the Group’s financial performance will not be adversely affected by such a change in consumer preferences. General State of Economy As pearls are mainly used in jewelry which may be deemed as fashionable consumer products or perceived as “luxuries”, the demand for pearls and pearl jewelry are subject to the general state of economy of the major markets for such products, including Hong Kong, the U.S. and Europe. There can be no assurance that the financial performance of the Group will not be adversely affected by any change in the general state of economy in the major markets that causes a decrease in discretionary spending for fashionable consumer products or “luxuries” such as pearls and pearl jewelry. 15 Foreign Currency Exposure The Group makes a majority of its purchases in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese Yen and Renminbi, and denominates its sales in either U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. Accordingly, changes in currency exchange rates (including revaluation of the Renminbi) and costs of conversion between U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars and such other currencies may have an adverse effect on the Group’s business. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue that could impact the Group’s cash flow and operating results. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could also have a material adverse effect on the Group’s profitability. Foreign Tax Liability The Company’s subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions, including the PRC and are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. Any increase in foreign tax liability may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s profitability. General Real Estate Investment Risks The Group owns certain real estate investments. Real estate investments, like many other types of long-term investments, have historically experienced significant fluctuations in value, and specific market conditions and cycles may result in occasional or permanent reductions in the value of the Group’s investments. Property cash flows and the marketability and value of real property will depend on many factors beyond the control of the Group, including, without limitation: • Adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • Changes in interest rates or financial markets; • Fluctuating local real estate conditions and changes in local laws and regulations; • Changes or promulgation and enforcement of governmental regulations relating to land use and zoning, environmental, occupational and safety matters; • Changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses; • Existence of uninsured or uninsurable risks; and • Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism. Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po have Substantial Control over our Company and can Affect Decisions Made by our Stockholders Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po beneficially own 3,750,001 and 3,437,501 shares of Common Stock, respectively, as of June 28, 2007. They control a majority of our total voting power (based on total of 6,382,582 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of June 28, 2007). In addition, they beneficially own 100,000 Series A Preferred Stock of the Company which entitles them to a fixed number of votes of 3,191,225 shares of Common Stock (subject to adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends, combinations, and the like upon occurrence of such event, if any). As a result, Mr. Cheng Chung Hing, Ricky and Mr. Cheng Tai Po have the requisite voting power to significantly 16 affect certain decisions of the Company, including the power to block corporate actions such as amendment provisions of our constitutional documents. The Price of our Common Stock may Fluctuate Significantly, which may Result in Losses for Investors The market price for the Common Stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the period from April 1, 2007 to May 31, 2007, the closing prices of the Common Stock as reported on AMEX ranged from a high of $8.9 per share to a low of $5.9 per share. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include and are not necessarily limited to: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results from guidance provided by us; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts or research firms; • changes in general economic conditions; and • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other competitors. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. SARS, Avian Flu and other diseases The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in the Asia Pacific region in 2003 had a negative effect in the economies of that region. A similar epidemic or other highly contagious disease in the Asia Pacific region, such as pandemic human influenza, could adversely affect economic activities, performance and operations of the Group. Other Risks We have attempted to identify material risk factors currently affecting our business and company. However, additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may occur or become material. These risks could impair our business operations or adversely affect revenues, cash flow or profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 