ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company’s business. • A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could adversely affect results. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as the availability of competing products, changes in customers’ financial conditions, or regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the cash advance products and services it offers due to guidelines published by regulatory agencies which have a direct or indirect effect on the governance of the Company and the products it offers. • Adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting the Company’s short-term consumer loan services could negatively impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations could have a negative effect on the Company’s business activities. In particular, short-term consumer loans have come under increased scrutiny and increasingly restrictive regulation in recent years. Some regulatory activity may limit the number of short-term loans that customers may receive or have outstanding, such as the limits prescribed by the FDIC in March 2005 and supplemented in February 2006, and regulations adopted by some states requiring that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database and limiting the number of such loans they may have outstanding; and regulations limiting the availability of the Company’s cash advance products to active duty military personnel. Certain consumer advocacy 16 Table of Contents groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of certain cash advance products to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. Legislation relating to cash advances is pending in some state legislatures. Adoption of such federal and state regulation or legislation could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of cash advance products at some or all of the Company’s locations. • The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s cash advance revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third party lenders to make loans to customers and with other third parties to provide services to facilitate loan underwriting. The loss of the relationship with any of these third parties, and an inability to replace them, or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company’s cash advance business. The Company also relies on third parties to provide other services that facilitate lending over the internet. The Company makes other non-cash advance products and services provided by various third party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its product or service or to maintain its quality and consistency, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such third parties to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. • Uncertainty regarding online delivery channel for cash advance product. CashNetUSA began operations in January 2004 and launched its online operations in May 2004. The Company may encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early-stage companies in rapidly evolving industries, such as the online cash advance industry. Some of these risks relate to its ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis; attract and retain qualified personnel in a competitive market for such personnel; operate, support, expand and develop its operations, its website, its software, communications and other systems; manage customer service and collections for geographically dispersed borrowers; respond to technological changes; respond to regulatory changes or demands; and respond to competitive market conditions, including the development and maintenance of provider relationships to enhance new customer opportunities. If the Company is unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing its business strategy, its online business, financial condition or results of its online operations may suffer. • The success of the Company’s online business depends on the growth of the online cash advance industry. CashNetUSA’s online cash advances and related revenues will not grow as planned if consumer acceptance of the online cash advance product or the use of the Internet as a medium of commerce for consumer financial products does not continue to grow or grows more slowly than expected. • The Company’s online business depends on the uninterrupted operation of CashNetUSA’s facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company’s online business depends highly upon its employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support, call centers, and processing and making cash advances. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company’s online operations are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could 17 Table of Contents result in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process online cash advances, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. A security breach of CashNetUSA’s computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of significant security measures these systems may still be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company’s systems, which could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s online business. • The Company may be unable to protect its proprietary technology or keep up with that of its competitors. The success of the Company’s online business depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company may be unable to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, competitors could, without violating the Company’s proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than its technology. The Company’s failure to protect its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as its competitors’ could put the company at a disadvantage to its competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s online business. • The Company’s growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit management personnel and the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. • Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise disposition operations. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, cash advance companies, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of cash advances or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. • A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause a deterioration in the performance of the Company’s pawn loan or cash advance portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as that sold in the Company’s pawnshops. An economic slowdown could result in an increase in loan defaults in our cash advance products. During 18 Table of Contents such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce cash advance balances, and would face more difficulty in collecting defaulted cash advances, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. While the credit risk for much of the Company’s pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. • The Company’s earnings and financial position are subject to changes in the value of gold. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect the Company’s earnings. A significant portion of the Company’s pawn loans are secured by gold jewelry. The Company’s pawn service charges, sales proceeds and ability to dispose of excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin depend on the value of gold. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreases in merchandise sales margins, in inventory valuations, in the value of collateral securing outstanding pawn loans, and in the balance of pawn loans secured by gold jewelry. • Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. • Changes in the capital markets or the Company’s financial condition could reduce available capital. The Company regularly accesses the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a significant deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company’s industry by market participants. • Media reports and public perception of short-term consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company’s cash advance business. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is alleged to be higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. Though the consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for our customers’ borrowing needs or the comparative cost to the customer when alternatives are not available, they do typically characterize these short-term consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for these loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for the cash advance products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. • Other risk factors are discussed under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. • Other risks that are indicated in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may apply as well. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 