ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from projections in forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), in our news releases and in oral statements by our representatives. However, other factors that we do not anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information may also have an adverse effect on our results. Risks Related to the Food Service Industry. Food service businesses may be materially and adversely affected by changes in consumer tastes, national and regional economic and political conditions, and changes in consumer eating habits, whether based on new information regarding diet, nutrition and health, or otherwise. Recessionary economic conditions, including higher levels of unemployment, lower levels of consumer confidence and decreased consumer spending can reduce restaurant traffic and sales and impose practical limits on pricing. If recessionary economic conditions persist for an extended period of time, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their spending behavior. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants, as well as local regulatory, economic and political conditions, terrorist acts or government responses, and catastrophic events such as earthquakes or other natural disasters. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, particularly regarding food quality, nutritional content, illness or public health issues (such as epidemics or the prospect of a pandemic), obesity, safety, injury or other health concerns. Adverse publicity in these areas could damage the trust customers place in our brand. We have taken steps to mitigate each of these risks. To minimize the risk of foodborne illness, we have implemented a HACCP system for managing food safety and quality. Nevertheless, these risks cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of such illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry or any widespread negative publicity regarding our brands or the restaurant industry in general could cause a decline in our sales and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable trends or developments concerning factors such as inflation, increased cost of food, labor, fuel, utilities, technology, insurance and employee benefits (including increases in hourly wages, workers’ compensation and other insurance costs and premiums), increases in the number and locations of competing restaurants, regional weather conditions and the availability of qualified, experienced management and hourly employees, may also adversely affect the food service industry in general. Because a significant number of our restaurants are company-operated, we may have greater exposure to operating cost issues than chains that are more heavily franchised. Exposure to these fluctuating costs, including increases in commodity costs, could negatively impact our margins. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing conditions. Restaurant sales and profitability are traditionally higher in the spring and summer months due to increased travel, improved weather conditions and other factors which affect the public’s dining habits. We cannot assure that our operating results will not be impacted by seasonal fluctuations in sales. Risks Associated with Severe Weather and Climate Conditions. Foodservice businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by severe weather conditions. Severe storms, hurricanes, prolonged drought or protracted heat waves and their aftermath, including flooding, mudslides or wildfires, can result in (i) lost restaurant sales when consumers stay home or are physically prevented from reaching the restaurants; (ii) property damage and lost sales when locations are forced to close for extended periods of time; (iii) interruptions in supply when vendors suffer damages or transportation is affected and (iv) increased costs if agricultural capacity is diminished or if insurance recoveries do not cover all our losses. If systemic or widespread adverse changes in climate or weather patterns occur, we could experience more of these losses, and such losses could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Suppliers. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and other food products subjects food service businesses such as ours to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients or require us to incur additional costs to obtain adequate 11 Table of Contents supplies. Our deliveries of supplies may be affected by adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, supplier financial or solvency issues, product recalls, failure to meet our high standards for quality or other issues. Reliance on Certain Geographic Markets. Because approximately 57% of all of our restaurants are located in the states of California and Texas, the economic conditions, state and local laws, government regulations, weather conditions and natural disasters affecting those states may have a material impact upon our results. While there are reports pointing towards U.S. economic recovery, many of our largest markets continue to experience adverse economic conditions, including higher levels of unemployment, lower levels of consumer confidence and decreased consumer spending. If economic recovery is slower and unemployment rates remain elevated, our sales results may be adversely affected. Risks Associated with Development. We intend to grow by developing additional company-owned restaurants and through new restaurant development by franchisees. Development involves substantial risks, including the risk of (i) the availability of financing for the Company and for franchisees at acceptable rates and terms, (ii) development costs exceeding budgeted or contracted amounts, (iii) delays in completion of construction, (iv) the inability to identify, or the unavailability of suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms, (v) developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened, (vi) the unpredicted negative impact of a new restaurant upon sales at nearby existing restaurants, (vii) competition for suitable development sites, (viii) incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event a development project is abandoned prior to completion, (ix) the inability to obtain all required governmental permits, including, in appropriate cases, liquor licenses, (x) changes in governmental rules, regulations and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act), and (xi) general economic and business conditions. Although we manage our development activities to reduce such risks, we cannot assure you that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. Our inability to expand in accordance with our plans or to manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Entering New Markets. Our growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets where we have no existing locations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographic markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. We may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products or attract new customers. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and new geographic markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographic markets in which we have substantial experience. It may also be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage restaurants. We cannot assure that company or franchise restaurants can be operated profitably in new geographic markets. Management decisions to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets may result in impairment charges. Competition. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel, advertising, brand identification and the type and quality of food. There are many well-established competitors. Each of our restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned and/or independent quick-service restaurants, fast-casual restaurants, sandwich shops and similar types of businesses. The trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services may increase the number of our competitors. Such increased competition could decrease the demand for our products and negatively affect our sales and profitability. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. Certain of our competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in the past, and may adopt similar strategies in the future. Our promotional strategies or other actions during unfavorable competitive conditions may adversely affect our margins. We plan to take various steps in connection with our on-going “brand re-invention” strategy, including making improvements to the facility image at our restaurants, introducing new, higher-quality products, discontinuing certain menu items and implementing new service and training initiatives. However, there can be no assurance (i) that our facility improvements will foster increases in sales and yield the desired return on investment; (ii) of the success of our new products, initiatives or our overall strategies; or (iii) that competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon our sales results and financial condition. We have an on-going “profit improvement program” which seeks to 12 Table of Contents improve efficiencies and lower costs in all aspects of operations. Although we have been successful in improving efficiencies and reducing costs in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. Risks Related to Increased Labor Costs. We have a substantial number of employees who are paid wage rates at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal, state and local minimum wage rates increase, our labor costs will increase. If competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting the increased costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the healthcare reform act) passed by Congress and signed into law in early 2010 imposes several new and costly mandates upon us, including the requirement that we offer health insurance to all full time employees beginning in 2014. It is our belief that our expenses incurred in providing such insurance will be substantially higher than our current expenses and could negatively affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Advertising. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which enable them to purchase significantly more television and radio advertising than we are able to purchase. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, should the cost of television or radio advertising increase or our advertising funds decrease for any reason, including implementation of reduced spending strategies, or should our advertising and promotion be less effective than our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, the trend toward fragmentation in the media favored by our target consumers poses challenges and risks for our marketing and advertising strategies. Failure to effectively tackle these challenges and risks could also have a materially adverse effect on our results. Taxes. Our income tax provision is sensitive to expected earnings and, as those expectations change, our income tax provisions may vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. In addition, from time to time, we may take positions for filing our tax returns that differ from the treatment for financial reporting purposes. The ultimate outcome of such positions could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Risks Related to Achieving Increased Franchise Ownership and Reducing Operating Costs. At October 3, 2010, approximately 57% of the Jack in the Box restaurants were franchised. Our plan to increase the percentage of franchise restaurants and move towards a level of franchise ownership more closely aligned with that of the quick service restaurant industry is subject to risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to identify franchisee candidates with appropriate experience and financial resources or to negotiate mutually acceptable agreements with them. Our franchisee candidates may not be able to obtain financing at acceptable rates and terms. Current credit market conditions may slow the rate at which we are able to refranchise. We may not be able to increase the percentage of franchise restaurants at the rate we desire or achieve the ownership mix of franchise to company-operated restaurants that we desire. Our ability to sell franchises and to realize gains from such sales is uncertain. Sales of our franchises and the realization of gains from franchising may vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, and may not meet expectations. We anticipate that our operating costs will be reduced as the number of company-operated restaurants decreases. The ability to reduce our operating costs through increased franchise ownership is subject to risks and uncertainties, and we may not achieve reductions in costs at the rate we desire. Risks Related to Franchise Operations. The opening and success of franchise restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises, the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees and developers. See “Risks Associated with Development” and “Risks Related to Achieving Increased Franchise Ownership and Reducing Operating Costs” above. We cannot assure you that developers planning the opening of franchise restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. As the number of franchisees increases, our revenues derived from royalties and rents at franchise restaurants will increase, as will the risk that earnings could be negatively impacted by defaults in the payment of royalties and rents. In addition, franchisee business obligations may not be limited to the operation of Jack in the Box restaurants, making them subject to business and financial risks unrelated to the operation of our restaurants. These unrelated risks could adversely affect a franchisee’s ability to make payments to us or to make payments on a timely basis. We cannot assure you that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. There are significant risks to our business if a franchisee, particularly one who 13 Table of Contents operates a large number of restaurants, fails to adhere to our standards and projects an image inconsistent with our brand. Risks Related to Loss of Key Personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain the services of skilled personnel, including key executives. The loss of services of any such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Government Regulations. See also “Item 1. Business — Regulation.” The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. The increasing amount and complexity of regulations may increase both our costs of compliance and our exposure to regulatory claims. We are subject to regulations including but not limited to those related to: • The preparation, labeling, advertising and sale of food; • Building and zoning requirements; • Employee healthcare (we are currently assessing the potential costs of new federal healthcare legislation); • Health, sanitation and safety standards; • Liquor licenses; • Labor and employment, including our relationships with employees and work eligibility requirements; • The registration, offer, sale, termination and renewal of franchises; • Consumer protection and the security of information. The costs of compliance, including increased investment in technology in order to protect such information, may negatively impact our margins; • Climate change, including the potential impact of greenhouse gases, water consumption, or a tax on carbon emissions. Risks Related to Computer Systems and Information Technology. We rely on computer systems and information technology to conduct our business. A material failure or interruption of service or a breach in security of our computer systems could cause reduced efficiency in operations, loss of data and business interruptions. Significant capital investment could be required to rectify these problems. In addition, any security breach involving our point of sale or other systems could result in loss of consumer confidence and potential costs associated with consumer fraud. Risks Related to Interest Rates. We have exposure to changes in interest rates based on our financing, investing and cash management activities. Changes in interest rates could materially impact our profitability. Risks Related to Availability of Credit. To the extent that banks in our revolving credit facility become insolvent, this could limit our ability to borrow to the full level of our facility. Risks Related to the Failure of Internal Controls. We maintain a documented system of internal controls, which is reviewed and monitored by an Internal Control Committee and tested by the Company’s full time Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business; however, we cannot be certain that our controls will be adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing errors or fraud. If our internal controls are ineffective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Environmental Risks and Regulations. As is the case with any owner or operator of real property, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts of law, which could adversely affect operations. We have engaged and may engage in real estate development projects and own or lease several parcels of real estate on which our restaurants are located. We are unaware of any significant hazards on properties we own or have owned, or operate or have operated, the remediation of which would result in material liability for the Company. Accordingly, we do not have environmental liability insurance, nor do we maintain a reserve to cover such events. In the event of the determination of contamination on such properties, the Company, as owner or operator, could be held liable for severe penalties and costs of remediation. We also operate motor vehicles and 14 Table of Contents warehouses and handle various petroleum substances and hazardous substances, and we are not aware of any current material liability related thereto. Risks Related to Leverage. The Company has a $600 million credit facility, which is comprised of a $400 million revolving credit facility and a $200 million term loan. Increased leverage resulting from borrowings under the credit facility could have certain material adverse effects on the Company, including but not limited to the following: (i) our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate or other purposes could be impaired, or any such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us; (ii) a substantial portion of our cash flows could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes; (iii) any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations or sell assets; (iv) our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be decreased; and (v) our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to repay expected borrowings under our credit facility and to meet our other debt or contractual obligations (including compliance with applicable financial covenants) will depend upon our future performance and our cash flows from operations, both of which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other known and unknown risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond our control. Risks of Market Volatility. Many factors affect the trading price of our stock, including factors over which we have no control, such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders and non-operating initiatives such as a share repurchase program. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for sales, growth rates, refranchising goals, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to drop. Risks of Changes in Accounting Policies and Assumptions. Changes in accounting standards, policies or related interpretations by auditors or regulatory entities may negatively impact our results. Many accounting standards require management to make subjective assumptions and estimates, such as those required for stock compensation, tax matters, pension costs, litigation, insurance accruals and asset impairment calculations. Changes in those underlying assumptions and estimates could significantly change our results. Litigation. Like any public company, we are subject to a wide variety of legal claims by employees, consumers, franchisees, shareholders and others including potential class action claims. The costs associated with the defense, settlement and/or potential judgments related to such claims could adversely affect our results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 