ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company’s business. • Adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting the Company’s short-term consumer loan services could negatively impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations could negatively affect the Company’s business activities or effectively eliminate some of the Company’s current loan products. In particular, short-term consumer loans have come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years that has resulted in increasingly restrictive regulations and, in at least one state, legislation that makes offering such loans impractical. Some legislative or regulatory activity may limit the amount of interest and fees to levels that would not permit such loans to be feasible or limit the number of short-term loans that customers may receive or have outstanding. Regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database and limit the number of such loans a borrower may have outstanding. Other regulations limit the availability of the Company’s cash advance products to active duty military personnel. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of certain cash advance products to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. In particular, both the executive and legislative branches of the federal government have recently exhibited an increasing interest in debating legislation that could further regulate short-term consumer loan products. Adoption of additional federal or state regulations or legislation could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of cash advance products in some or all of the states in which the Company offers a short term cash advance product. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, the Company’s business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulation and permit licensing. Local jurisdictions’ efforts to restrict pawnshop operations and cash advance lending through the use of local zoning and permitting laws have been on the increase. Actions taken in the future by local governing bodies to require special 16 Table of Contents use permits for, or impose other restrictions on pawnshops or cash advance lenders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Finally, in recent years, the cash advance industry has been subject to regulatory proceedings, class action lawsuits and other litigation concerning the offering of cash advances, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, even if the Company is not a party to those proceedings. • A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company’s pawn loan or cash advance portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as the merchandise sold in the Company’s pawnshops. An economic slowdown could result in an increase in loan defaults in our cash advance products. During such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce cash advance balances, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted cash advances, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. While the credit risk for much of the Company’s pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. • A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could adversely affect results. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers’ financial conditions. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the cash advance products operations of the Company and the products it offers. • The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s cash advance revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third-party lenders to make loans to customers and with other third parties to provide services to facilitate lending and loan underwriting in both the storefront and online cash advance channels. The loss of the relationship with any of these third parties, and an inability to replace them, or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company’s cash advance business. The Company makes other non-cash advance products and services provided by various third-party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its product or service or to maintain its quality and consistency, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such third parties to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. • The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company’s facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company’s business, particularly its online business, depends highly upon its employees’ ability to 17 Table of Contents perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support, call centers, and processing and making cash advances. Additionally, the Company’s storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company’s point of sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company’s online operations, storefront point of sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process online cash advances, perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. A security breach of the Company’s computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of significant security measures these systems may still be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company’s systems, which could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business. • The Company may be unable to protect its proprietary technology or keep up with that of its competitors. The success of the Company’s business, particularly its online business, depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company may be unable to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, competitors could, without violating the Company’s proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than its technology. The Company’s failure to protect its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as its competitors’ could put the company at a disadvantage to its competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. • Changes in the Company’s financial condition or continued disruption in the capital markets could reduce available capital. The Company regularly accesses the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a sustained disruption or further deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company’s industry by market participants. The current disruptions and volatility in the capital markets have caused banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit facilities and require higher pricing upon renewal of existing credit facilities. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions and the current state of the capital market may adversely affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges and this, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to advance our strategic plans. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, third parties with whom we do business may incur increased costs or business disruption and this could adversely affect our business relationships with such third parties. • The Company’s growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such 18 Table of Contents as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit management personnel, the ability to access capital and the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. • Media reports and public perception of short-term consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company’s cash advance business. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is alleged to be higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. Though the consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for our customers’ borrowing needs or the comparative cost to the customer when alternatives are not available, they do typically characterize these short-term consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for these loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for the cash advance products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. • Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise disposition operations. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, cash advance companies, credit service organizations, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of cash advances or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. • The Company’s earnings and financial position are subject to changes in the value of gold. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect the Company’s earnings. A significant portion of the Company’s pawn loans are secured by gold jewelry. The Company’s pawn service charges, sales proceeds and ability to dispose of excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin depend on the value of gold. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreases in merchandise sales margins, in inventory valuations, in the value of collateral securing outstanding pawn loans, and in the balance of pawn loans secured by gold jewelry. • The Company is subject to impairment risk. At December 31, 2008, the Company had goodwill totaling $494.2 million, consisting of $205.0 million related to the pawn lending segment, $283.9 million related to the cash advance segment and $5.3 million related to the check cashing segment, on its Consolidated Balance Sheet, all of which represent assets capitalized in connection with the Company’s acquisitions and business combinations. Accounting for intangible assets requires significant management estimates and judgment. The Company may not realize the value of these 19 Table of Contents intangible assets. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of the intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an intangible asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could adversely affect our results of operations. • The Company’s foreign operations subject the Company to foreign exchange risk. The Company is subject to the risk of unexpected changes in foreign currency exchange rates by virtue of its loans to residents of the United Kingdom and its operations in Mexico. Our results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances associated with the Company’s United Kingdom and Mexico loans are denominated in their respective currencies and are, as a result, exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and the Company may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. • The Company’s operations in Mexico are subject to political or regulatory changes or significant changes in the economic environment. Significant regulatory or political changes in Mexico or changes in Mexico’s economic environment could restrict the ability of the Company to sustain or expand its operations in Mexico, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company also maintains business relationships with significant third party service providers of labor and technology services. The failure of these or other key service providers to fulfill their obligations as a result of regulatory, political, economic or other factors could disrupt the Company’s operations in Mexico. • The failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations could negatively impact the Company’s performance. The Company made significant acquisitions in 2008 involving a new product line and business model as well as a significant entry into a foreign market. The Company has historically grown through strategic acquisitions and a key component of the Company’s future strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities. The success of recent and future acquisitions is, and will be, dependent upon the Company effectively integrating the management, operations and technology of acquired businesses into the Company’s existing management, operations and technology platforms. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company’s organization could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. • Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. • Other risk factors are discussed under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 