ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties that should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company. In addition, this report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by the Company described below. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed below could also have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry The Company’s business is highly regulated under applicable laws, and if it fails to comply with these laws, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company’s products and services are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and licensing under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes, ordinances and regulations. These state laws, rules and regulations generally require licensing as a pawnbroker, lender or credit services organization or credit access business (“CSO”), establish limits on the amount, duration, renewals or extensions of and charges for (including interest rates and fees) various categories of loans, direct the form and content of the Company’s loan contracts and other documentation, restrict collection practices, and may subject the Company to periodic examination by state regulatory authorities, among other things. Because pawn loans, short-term loans, line of credit accounts and installment loans, such as those provided by the Company, are viewed as extensions of credit, in the United States, the Company must comply with certain federal laws, such as the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), among other laws, and with respect to the Company’s CSO programs, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. In addition, the Company’s marketing efforts and the representations made about its products and services are subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practice statutes, including the Federal Trade Commission Act and analogous state statutes under which the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), state attorneys general or private plaintiffs may bring legal actions. The Company is also subject to various foreign laws in connection with the products or services it offers in Australia, Canada, Mexico and the United Kingdom, which are discussed below. Compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations requires forms, processes, procedures, controls and the infrastructure to support these requirements. Compliance may also create operational constraints, be costly or affect operating results. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation” for further discussion of the laws applicable to the Company. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations could subject it to regulatory enforcement actions, result in the assessment against it of civil, monetary, criminal or other penalties (some of which could be significant in the case of knowing or reckless violations), result in the issuance of cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief), require the Company to refund interest or fees, result in a determination that certain loans are not collectible, result in a revocation of licenses, result in a finding that it has engaged in unfair and deceptive practices or cause damage to the Company’s reputation, brands and valued customer relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents New laws or regulations or adverse changes in, or the interpretation or enforcement of, existing laws or regulations affecting the Company’s products and services could negatively impact its operations. Governments at the national, state and local levels, as well as foreign governments, may seek to impose new regulatory restrictions or licensing requirements that affect the Company’s products or services. They may also interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways that could restrict the Company’s ability to continue its current methods of operation or to expand operations and may have a negative effect on its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In recent years, consumer loans, such as those offered by the Company, have come under increased regulatory scrutiny that has resulted in increasingly restrictive regulations and legislation that makes offering such loans in certain states in the United States or the foreign countries where the Company operates (as further described below) less profitable or unattractive to the Company. This scrutiny has resulted in the Company changing some of the consumer loan products offered in those states and has reduced the profitability or volume of consumer loans in some of those states. It has also, in some cases, resulted in the Company ceasing to offer consumer loans in certain states, including, since 2011, the States of Arizona, Montana and New Hampshire, and discontinuation of its CSO program in Maryland. Regulations adopted by some states in the United States require that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be reported to a centralized database and limit the number of loans a borrower may have outstanding. Other laws adversely impact the availability of some of the Company’s consumer loan products in the United States to active duty military personnel, active members of the National Guard or members on active reserve duty and their immediate dependents. In addition, the Company’s business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulation and permit licensing. Local jurisdictions’ efforts to restrict pawnshop operations and short-term lending through the use of local zoning and permitting laws have been increasing and could reduce profitability and volume of the loans offered or impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations in those jurisdictions. For example, during 2013, the Company closed 36 retail services locations in Texas that offered consumer loans as their primary source of revenue, primarily as a result of restrictive city ordinances that have been passed since 2011 that had the effect of reducing the profitability and the volume of short-term consumer loans. See “Item 1. Business—Recent Developments” for additional information regarding recent regulatory developments and these store closures. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of certain consumer loan products to consumers, and this has resulted in both the executive and legislative branches of the U.S. federal government and state governmental bodies exhibiting an interest in debating legislation that could further regulate consumer loan products such as those offered by the Company. The U.S. Congress, as well as similar state and local bodies and similar foreign governmental authorities, have debated, and may in the future adopt, proposed legislation that could, among other things, place a cap on the effective annual percentage rate on the amount of interest or fees that may be charged, ban or limit loan renewals or extensions (where the customer agrees to pay the current finance charge on a loan for the right to make payment of the outstanding principal balance of such loan at a later date plus an additional finance charge), including the rates to be charged for loan renewals or extensions, require the Company to offer an extended payment plan, allow for only minimal origination fees for advances, require short-term lenders to be bonded or require lenders to report consumer loan activity to databases designed to monitor or restrict consumer borrowing activity by limiting the number of consumer loans that customers may receive or have outstanding, or impose “cooling off” periods between the time a loan is paid off and another loan is obtained. The Company cannot currently assess the likelihood of any future unfavorable federal or state legislation or regulations being proposed or enacted that could affect the Company’s products and services. The Company closely monitors proposed legislation being discussed in states where it does business, especially states where it offers consumer loan products. For example, a ballot initiative is pending in Missouri that, if passed, would likely require the Company to cease offering its consumer loan products in that state. There can be no assurance that additional 25 Table of Contents legislative or regulatory initiatives will not be enacted that could severely restrict, prohibit or eliminate the Company’s ability to offer a consumer loan product. In addition, under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that could affect the way the Company does business and may force the Company to terminate or modify its operations in particular states or affect its ability to obtain new licenses or renew the licenses it holds. Any of these or other legislative or regulatory actions that affect the Company’s pawn or consumer loan business at the national, state and local level could, if enacted, have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could have a significant impact on the Company’s U.S. consumer loan business. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), which regulates consumer financial products and services, including consumer loans offered by the Company, has regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over providers of consumer financial products and services, including the explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of such providers. The CFPB has begun exercising supervisory review over and examining certain non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services, including providers of consumer loans such as the Company. The CFPB’s examination authority permits CFPB examiners to inspect the books and records of providers of short-term, small dollar lenders, such as the Company, and ask questions about their business practices, and the examination procedures include specific modules for examining marketing activities, loan application and origination activities, payment processing activities and sustained use by consumers, collections, accounts in default, consumer reporting and third-party relationships, as well as compliance programs. As a result of these examinations of non-bank providers of consumer credit, the Company could be required to change its practices or procedures, whether as a result of another party being examined or as a result of an examination of the Company, or could be subject to monetary penalties, which could adversely affect the Company. On November 20, 2013, the Company consented to the issuance of a Consent Order by the CFPB pursuant to which the Company agreed, without admitting or denying any of the facts or conclusions made by the CFPB from its 2012 review of the Company, to pay a civil money penalty of $5 million and to set aside $8 million for a period of 180 days to fund any further payments to eligible Ohio customers who make valid claims in connection with the Company’s Ohio voluntary reimbursement program. In addition, as a result of the CFPB’s review, the Company is in the process of enhancing its compliance management programs and implementing additional procedures to address the issues identified by the CFPB. The Company is also required to provide periodic reports to the CFPB. See “Item 1. Business—Recent Developments—Regulatory, Litigation and Other Developments—Consumer Financial Protection Bureau” and “—Voluntary Reimbursements to Ohio Customers” for additional information regarding the Ohio voluntary reimbursement program. In addition to having the authority to obtain monetary penalties for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules), the CFPB can require remediation of practices, pursue administrative proceedings or litigation and obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief). Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions to remedy violations of state law. If the CFPB or one or more state attorneys general or state regulators believe that the Company has violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents On April 24, 2013, the CFPB issued a report entitled “Payday Loans and Deposit Advance Products: A White Paper of Initial Findings,” indicating that it had “engaged in an in-depth review of short-term small dollar loans, including payday loans.” The report discusses the initial findings of the CFPB regarding short-term payday loans provided by non-bank financial institutions at storefront locations and deposit account advances offered by depository institutions. While the CFPB’s study stated that “these products may work for some consumers for whom an expense needs to be deferred for a short period of time,” the CFPB also stated that its “findings raised substantial consumer protection concerns” related to the sustained use of payday loans and deposit account advances. In the report and subsequent statements, the CFPB reiterated that it has authority to adopt rules identifying acts or practices as unfair, deceptive or abusive, and hence unlawful, in connection with the offering of consumer financial products and services and to act to prevent providers from engaging in such acts or practices. The CFPB announced that, based on the potential consumer harm and the data that it had gathered, further attention was warranted to protect consumers and that it expects to use its authorities to provide protections to consumers. The report indicated the CFPB plans to analyze the effectiveness of limitations, such as cooling-off periods between payday loans, “in curbing sustained use and other harms.” Additionally, the CFPB indicated that the report did not focus on online lending and that the CFPB is analyzing borrowing activity by consumers using online payday loans. The Company does not currently know the nature and extent of the rules that the CFPB will adopt, and the CFPB’s 2014 agenda indicates that its target date for proposing such rules is March 2014, although it could act earlier or later than that date. If the CFPB adopts any rules or regulations that significantly restrict the conduct of the Company’s consumer loan business, any such rules or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or could make the continuance of all or part of the Company’s U.S. consumer loan business impractical or unprofitable. Any new rules or regulations adopted by the CFPB could also result in significant compliance costs. The United Kingdom has recently increased regulation of the consumer loan industry as well as demonstrated an increasing interest in considering legislation or regulations that could further regulate or restrict the consumer loan products the Company offers. In the United Kingdom, the Company must comply with the European Union Consumer Credit Directive, the Irresponsible Lending Guidance of the Office of Fair Trading (the “OFT”), and the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 that was amended by the Consumer Credit Act of 2006 (collectively, the “CCA”), among other rules and regulations. In December 2012, the U.K. Parliament passed the Financial Services Act of 2012 (the “Act”), which created a new regulatory framework for the supervision and management of the banking and financial services industry in the United Kingdom, including the consumer lending industry in which the Company operates. The Act mandates that the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”) take over responsibility for regulating consumer credit from the OFT in April 2014. Certain provisions of the Act took effect on April 1, 2013, and other provisions of the Act will take effect on April 1, 2014. The Act makes changes to the CCA and the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 (the “FSMA”), and gives the OFT the power to suspend consumer credit licenses with immediate effect or from a date specified. In addition, under the Act, the Company will be required to obtain authorization from the FCA in 2014 to provide consumer credit, which will require that the Company satisfy, and continue to satisfy, certain minimum standards set out in the FSMA and may result in additional costs to the Company. During the period of transition of regulatory responsibility over consumer credit from the OFT to the FCA, the OFT has continued and will continue to fully and rigorously regulate consumer credit, including the short-term loan market. In October 2013 the FCA issued a consultation paper that proposed certain changes to the current requirements for lenders of unsecured credit in the UK such as the Company, including mandatory affordability checks on borrowers, limiting the number of rollovers to two, restricting how lenders can advertise and proposing the power to ban advertisements it deems misleading, and introducing a limit of two unsuccessful attempts on the use of continuous payment authority (which provides a creditor the ability to directly debit a customer’s account for payment when authorized by the customer to do so) to pay off a loan. On February 28, 2014, the FCA published the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (the “CONC”) within the FCA Handbook that contains the final regulations that will cover the conduct requirements for lenders of unsecured credit such as the Company. The Company is conducting a review and assessment of the newly published final regulations set forth in the CONC to evaluate and determine the potential impact of the final regulations included in the CONC and what effect such regulations may have on its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If the final FCA regulations included in the CONC are consistent with the proposed rules, the Company will be required to make adjustments to some of its business practices, including its collections processes, which could possibly result in lower collections on loans made by the Company and a decrease in the number of customers that it is able to approve. Subject to certain transitional periods, certain provisions of the CONC take effect on April 1, 2014 and other provisions, such as the potential limits on rollovers, continuous payment authority and advertising, take effect on July 1, 2014. The Company expects that its compliance costs will be significantly increased as a result of these final regulations. In addition, in June 2013, the OFT referred the payday lending industry in the United Kingdom to the Competition Commission for review to determine whether certain features of the payday lending industry prevent, restrict or distort competition and, if so, what remedial action should be taken. The Competition Commission has been gathering data from industry participants, including the Company, in connection with its review. In January 2014, the Competition Commission published a preliminary report indicating that it has been reviewing, and is continuing to review, impediments in the payday lending market that prevent customers from effectively shopping around for their loan or from switching lenders and whether there are barriers to entry and expansion by new and existing 27 Table of Contents lenders, primarily due to market concentration by larger, established lenders, that adversely affect competition. In addition, these preliminary findings indicate that the extent to which lenders compete on price may be limited and that a lack of consumer access to other types of credit products may serve to provide little constraint on payday lenders. These findings were only preliminary, and the Competition Commission study is ongoing and is required to be completed by June 26, 2015, although the Competition Commission has stated that it aims to complete the investigation in a shorter period. The ultimate outcome from the study is not yet known, but if the investigation finds remedial action is necessary, the Competition Commission will decide whether to order such remedial action itself or whether it should recommend certain actions or remedies be taken by the industry regulator, which will likely be the FCA by the time the report is issued. In addition, on December 18, 2013, the UK passed the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act, which includes an amendment that requires the FCA to introduce rules “with a view to securing an appropriate degree of protection for borrowers against excessive charges” on “high-cost short-term” consumer loans by January 2, 2015. Pursuant to this amendment, the FCA could adopt fee, cost of credit or other restrictions that could reduce the volume or profitability of the consumer loans that the Company offers, could cause the Company to change the products that it offers or could cause the Company to cease offering certain types of consumer loans in the UK. Any of these regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations in the United Kingdom. The OFT is reviewing the payday lending sector in the United Kingdom, including the Company, which could result in changes to the Company’s business processes or payday lending products. In February 2012, the OFT announced that it had launched a review of the payday lending sector to assess the sector’s compliance with the CCA, the Irresponsible Lending Guidelines and other relevant guidance and legal obligations. As part of this review, the OFT conducted examinations of a number of U.K. payday lenders, including the Company, to assess individual company compliance with these laws and guidelines. The OFT has announced that these inspections will be used to assess a licensee’s fitness to hold a consumer credit license and could result in formal enforcement action, including potential license revocation or significant fines or penalties where appropriate. The OFT announced the findings of its review during the first quarter of 2013 and enumerated a number of expectations it has for payday lenders related to affordability assessments, rollover practices, advertising, debt collection practices and consumer disclosures, among other expectations. On May 3, 2013, the OFT sent the Company a letter of findings related to its examination of the Company’s U.K. short-term consumer loan (or payday) business, which indicated that the Company may not be complying fully with all aspects of the Irresponsible Lending Guidelines, the CCA and other relevant laws and guidance. This letter indicated the OFT’s general and specific concerns in the following categories: advertising and marketing, pre-contract information and explanations, affordability assessments, rollovers, including deferred refinance and extended loans, forbearance and debt collection, and regulatory and other compliance issues. The OFT asked the Company to provide an independent audit of the Company’s compliance in relation to each concern identified in the letter by July 29, 2013. The Company believes it has addressed the concerns identified by the OFT, and the Company provided this audit to the OFT by the required date. This audit is intended to evidence how the Company has rectified the areas of concern identified by the OFT. Based upon the Company’s response to the OFT, the Company does not expect any of the changes it implemented in its business to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future operations and financial condition. However, the Company continues to receive additional requests for data and documentation from the OFT, and the Company is complying with those requests. The Company can provide no assurance as to whether it will successfully resolve the concerns expressed by the OFT or whether, in addressing these concerns, the Company will need to change its business processes or payday lending products in the United Kingdom in a manner that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Significant changes in foreign laws or regulations or a deterioration of the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could affect the Company’s operations in these countries. Significant changes in foreign laws or regulations or a deterioration of the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could restrict the ability of the Company to sustain or expand its operations in these countries, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could impair the Company’s ability to continue operations in these countries. In addition, the failure of key service providers to fulfill their obligations as a result of regulatory, political, economic or other factors could disrupt the Company’s operations in Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom. In Mexico, restrictions and regulations affecting pawn services, including licensing restrictions, disclosure requirements and limits on interest rates have been and likely will in the future be proposed from time to time. The Company also maintains business relationships with third-party service providers. The Company’s business in Mexico is also subject to other potential risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company’s control, such as violence, social unrest, enforcement of property rights and public safety and security, which could restrict or eliminate the ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic or demand. In addition, the Company offers consumer loans over the internet to customers in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. Australia and the United Kingdom have recently increased regulation of the Company’s industry as well as demonstrated an increasing interest in considering legislation or regulations that could further regulate or restrict the consumer loan products the Company offers. In Australia the Company must comply with the responsible lending guidelines under the National Consumer Credit Protection Act (2010), which was amended in 2012. The amendment includes limitations on permissible fees charged on certain consumer loans, including consumer loans made by the Company. The Company has recently altered the product it offers in Australia. The Company is still assessing the impact that the changes will have on its business in Australia, but the Company expects the product offering will be less profitable. If 29 Table of Contents the reduction in profitability is such that the Company’s product offering is not sustainable, it may need to exit Australia if the product cannot be further modified in a way that retains profitability in that country. See “The United Kingdom has recently increased regulation of the consumer loan industry as well as demonstrated an increasing interest in considering legislation or regulations that could further regulate or restrict the consumer loan products the Company offers” and “The OFT is reviewing the payday lending sector in the United Kingdom, including the Company, which could result in changes to the Company’s business processes or payday lending products” above for recent UK regulatory activity. An inability to disburse U.S. consumer loan proceeds or collect consumer loan payments through the Automated Clearing House system would materially adversely affect the Company’s consumer loan business. When making consumer loans in the United States, the Company’s online consumer loan business uses the Automated Clearing House (“ACH”), system to deposit loan proceeds into its customers’ bank accounts, and both the Company’s online and storefront consumer loan businesses, including loans made through the CSO programs, depend on the ACH system to collect amounts due by withdrawing funds from its customers’ bank accounts when it has obtained written authorization to do so from the customer. The Company’s ACH transactions are processed by banks, and if these banks cease to provide ACH processing services, the Company would have to materially alter, or possibly discontinue, some or all of its consumer loan business if alternative ACH processors are not available. It has been reported that recent actions by the U.S. Department of Justice (the “Justice Department”), the FDIC and certain state regulators appear to be intended to discourage banks and ACH payment processors from providing access to the ACH system for certain short-term consumer loan (or payday loan) providers that they believe are operating illegally, cutting off their access to the ACH system to either debit or credit customer accounts (or both). According to published reports, the Justice Department has issued subpoenas to banks and payment processors and the FDIC and other regulators are said to be using bank oversight examinations to discourage banks from providing access to the ACH system to certain online lenders. In August 2013, the Department of Financial Services of the State of New York (the “NY DFS”), sent letters to approximately 35 online short-term consumer loan companies (that did not include the Company as it does not offer consumer loans in New York) demanding that they cease and desist offering illegal payday loans to New York consumers and also sent letters to over 100 banks, as well as the National Automated Clearing House Association (“NACHA”) (which oversees the ACH network), requesting that they work with the NY DFS to cut off ACH system access to New York customer accounts for illegal payday lenders. NACHA, in turn, has requested that its participants review origination activity for these 35 online short-term consumer loan companies and to advise NACHA whether it has terminated these lenders’ access to the ACH system or, if not, the basis for not doing so. NACHA also requested that participants review ACH origination activities related to other online loan companies and to terminate any ACH system access that would violate NACHA rules, which would include, according to NACHA, any authorizations to use the ACH system to pay illegal loans that are unenforceable under state law. Maryland’s Division of Financial Regulation has also been reported to have taken steps to stop banks in Maryland from processing illegal payday loans in its state, and the California Department of Business Oversight similarly directed state-licensed banks and credit unions to monitor transactions with any unlicensed lenders. This heightened regulatory scrutiny by the Justice Department, the FDIC and other regulators has the potential to cause banks and ACH payment processors to cease doing business with consumer lenders who are operating legally simply to avoid the risk of heightened scrutiny or even litigation. In addition, NACHA has certain operating rules that govern the use of the ACH system. In November 2013, NACHA proposed amendments to these rules that, if adopted, would be effective in March 2015 and would establish limitations on ACH return rates and impose fees on certain ACH returns. If these amendments are adopted in their current form, the Company’s access to the ACH system could be restricted, its ACH costs could increase and the Company could be required to make changes to its business practices. 30 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company’s access to the ACH system will not be impaired as a result of this heightened scrutiny or the proposed NACHA rule amendments, and if this access is impaired, the Company’s consumer loan business could be materially adversely affected and the Company may find it difficult or impossible to continue some or all of its consumer loan business, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s e-commerce segment uses lead providers to assist it in obtaining new customers, and if its ability to use such lead providers is impaired, it could adversely affect the Company’s online lending business. The Company’s e-commerce segment is dependent on third parties, referred to as lead generators or lead providers, as a source of new customers. Generally, lead providers operate, or work with affiliates who operate, separate websites to attract prospective customers and then sell those ‘‘leads’’ to online lenders. As a result, the success of the Company’s online consumer lending business depends substantially on the willingness and ability of lead providers to send it customer leads at acceptable prices. If regulatory oversight of lead providers is increased, through the implementation of new laws or regulations or the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the Company’s ability to use lead providers could be restricted or eliminated. For example, during 2013 the State of California began requiring lead providers to be licensed under its existing laws that govern short-term consumer loans in that state. As a result, the Company has discontinued using lead providers to generate leads for short-term consumer loans in California. While this discontinuation did not have a material adverse effect on the Company, if other states adopt similar requirements, the Company’s ability to use lead providers in those states would also be interrupted. In addition, the CFPB has indicated its intention to examine compliance with federal laws and regulations by lead providers and to scrutinize the flow of non-public, private consumer information between lead providers and lead buyers, such as the Company’s e-commerce segment. Lead providers’ failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or the implementation of new laws or regulations or the interpretation of existing laws or regulations applicable to lead providers, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s online consumer lending business. Additionally, the use of lead providers could subject the Company to additional regulatory cost and expense. If the e-commerce segment’s ability to use lead generators were to be impaired, its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The use of personal data used in credit underwriting is highly regulated under federal laws and regulations. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (the “FCRA”), and related laws and regulations concerning consumer reports have recently been under regulatory scrutiny, and certain related regulations or interpretations of the FTC were revised by the FTC. The FCRA regulates the collection, dissemination and use of consumer information, including consumer credit information. The FCRA requires the Company to promptly update any credit information reported to a credit reporting agency about a consumer and to allow a process by which consumers may inquire about credit information furnished by the Company to a consumer reporting agency. Historically, the FTC has played a key role in the implementation, oversight, enforcement and interpretation of the FCRA. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB is to have primary supervisory, regulatory and enforcement authority of FCRA issues, although the FTC will also retain its enforcement role regarding the FCRA but will share that role in many respects with the CFPB. It is not certain exactly how the CFPB will supervise and regulate consumer reporting agencies, some of whom the Company rely upon for underwriting data. The CFPB may take a different approach than the FTC, including with respect to regulation, enforcement and supervision. Changes in the regulation, enforcement or supervision of the FCRA may materially affect the Company’s business if new regulations or interpretations by the CFPB of the FTC require the Company to 31 Table of Contents materially alter the manner in which the Company uses personal data in its credit underwriting. The oversight of the FCRA by either the CFPB or the FTC and any related investigation or enforcement activities may have a materially adverse impact on the Company’s business, including the Company’s operations, its mode and manner of conducting business and its financial results. Negative public perception of the Company’s business, specifically its consumer loan business and its business practices, could cause demand for the Company’s products to significantly decrease. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. Such consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the Annual Percentage Rate to a consumer for this type of loan, which is compared unfavorably to the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with top-tier credit histories. The fees charged by the Company and others in the industry attract media publicity about the industry and can be perceived as controversial by those who do not focus on the credit risk and high transaction costs of serving the Company’s customer segment. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for any or all of the consumer loan products offered by the Company could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to short-term loans or other consumer loan products offered by the Company that could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. In addition, the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of its level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters— even if related to seemingly isolated incidents—could erode trust and confidence and damage the Company’s reputation among existing and potential customers, which could make it difficult for the Company to attract new customers and maintain existing ones and could significantly decrease the demand for the Company’s products. Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been and is currently subject to lawsuits (including purported class actions) that could cause the Company to incur substantial expenditures, generate adverse publicity and could significantly impair the Company’s business, force the Company to cease doing business in one or more jurisdictions or cause it to cease offering one or more products. The Company is also likely to be subject to further litigation in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in or a settlement of any current or future litigation could cause the Company to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate the Company’s operations in particular states. In October 2013, the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement to settle an outstanding class action lawsuit that had been ongoing since 2004. The Settlement Agreement requires a minimum payment by the Company of $18.0 million and a maximum payment of $36.0 million to cover class claims (including honorarium payments to the named plaintiffs) and the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and costs (including the costs of claims administration). See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Litigation” for additional information regarding this settlement. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of the Company’s management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. The Company is also subject to regulatory proceedings, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of applicable laws, rules and regulations in those regulatory proceedings, even if the 32 Table of Contents Company is not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. Adverse court interpretations of the laws and regulations under which the Company operates could require the Company to alter the products it offers or impair the Company’s ability to offer certain products. On May 28, 2009, one of the Company’s subsidiaries, Ohio Neighborhood Finance, Inc., doing business as Cashland (“Cashland”), filed a standard collections suit in an Elyria Municipal Court in Ohio against Rodney Scott seeking judgment against Mr. Scott in the amount of $570.16, which was the amount due under his loan agreement. Cashland’s loan was offered under the Ohio Mortgage Loan Act (“OMLA”), which allows for interest at a rate of 25% per annum plus certain loan fees allowed by the statute. The Municipal Court, in Ohio Neighborhood Finance, Inc. v. Rodney Scott, held that short-term, single-payment consumer loans made by Cashland are not authorized under the OMLA, and instead should have been offered under the Ohio Short-Term Lender Law, which was passed by the Ohio legislature in 2008 for consumer loans with similar terms. Due to a cap on interest and loan fees at an amount that is less than permitted under the OMLA, the Company does not offer loans under the Ohio Short-Term Lender Law. On December 3, 2012, the Ohio Ninth District Court of Appeals affirmed the Municipal Court’s ruling in a 2-1 decision. Although this court decision is only legally binding in the Ninth District of Ohio, which includes four counties in northern Ohio where Cashland operates seven stores and where the Company has modified its short-term loan product in response to this decision, other Ohio courts may consider this decision. The Supreme Court of Ohio heard the Company’s appeal of the Ninth District Court’s decision in December 2013, and a decision is expected during the first half of 2014. If the Ninth District Court’s decision is upheld by the Ohio Supreme Court on appeal, the Company’s Ohio operations may be adversely affected. The Company relies on the OMLA to make short-term loans in its retail services locations in Ohio, and if the Company is unable to continue making short-term loans under this law, it will alter its short-term loan product in Ohio. In addition, following the ruling by the Ninth District Court, four lawsuits were filed against the Company by customers in Ohio, three of which are purported class action complaints, alleging that the Company improperly made loans under the OMLA, and the Company may in the future receive other claims. Each of these lawsuits have been stayed pending the outcome of the Supreme Court of Ohio’s decision. If such legal proceedings are determined adversely to the Company, it could result in material losses or require the Company to make refunds in connection with certain short-term loans made under the OMLA. Adverse court interpretations of the various laws and regulations under which the Company operates could require the Company to alter the products that it offers or cease doing business in the jurisdiction where the court interpretation is applicable. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements the Company uses illegal or unenforceable. The Company includes arbitration provisions in its consumer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow the Company to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, the Company’s arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of shielding the Company from class action liability. The Company’s arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. The Company takes the position that the arbitration provisions in its consumer loan agreements, including class action waivers, are valid and enforceable; however, the enforceability of arbitration provisions is often challenged in court. If those challenges are successful, the Company’s arbitration and class action waiver provisions could be unenforceable, which could subject the Company to additional litigation, including additional class action litigation. 33 Table of Contents In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts and has enacted legislation with such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loan agreements and also certain consumer loan agreements to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to the U.S. Congress, and it authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. In 2013, the CFPB released a preliminary report on consumer arbitration provisions and indicated further study was in process. Any rule adopted by the CFPB would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements). Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair the Company’s ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase the Company’s exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions, which would be costly and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s earnings and financial position are subject to changes in the value of gold. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect the Company’s earnings. A significant portion of the Company’s pawn loans are secured by gold jewelry, and the Company sells significant quantities of refined gold and gold jewelry acquired through forfeitures or purchased directly from customers. The Company’s pawn service charges, sales proceeds and ability to dispose of excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin depend on the value of gold. As demonstrated recently, there has been an increased volatility in the price of gold. For example, gold prices have declined meaningfully since 2012, resulting in compressed profit margins on commercial sales and lower overall gross profit. In addition, the recent decline resulted in decreases in commercial merchandise sales, in inventory valuations, in the value of collateral securing outstanding pawn loans, and in the balance of pawn loans secured by gold jewelry. An additional significant decline in the value of gold could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The failure of third parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s consumer loan revenue depends in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third-party lenders, through the CSO programs, to make loans to customers and other third parties to provide services to facilitate lending, loan underwriting and payment processing in both the storefront and online lending consumer loan channels. The loss of the relationship with any of these third parties, and an inability to replace them or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services or to have the ability to provide their products and services, could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenue and earnings of its consumer loan business. The Company’s revenue and earnings from its consumer loan business could also be adversely affected if any of those third-party providers make material changes to products or services that the Company relies on. The Company offers other services provided by various third-party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its products or services, makes material changes to such products and services or does not maintain its quality and consistency or fails to have the ability to provide its products and services, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such third parties to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 34 Table of Contents The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company’s systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company’s business, particularly its e-commerce lending business, is highly dependent upon the Company’s employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as internet support, call center activities, and processing and making consumer loans. Additionally, the Company’s storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company’s point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company’s internet operations, storefront point-of-sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair the Company’s ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process internet consumer loans, perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. Any such interruption could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and the Company’s failure to adapt to such decrease could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers’ financial conditions. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenue could decrease significantly. Even if the Company makes adaptations or introduces new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the consumer loan operations of the Company and the products it offers. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents If the Company’s allowance for losses and liability for estimated losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans are not adequate to absorb losses or if the Company does not successfully manage its credit risk for unsecured consumer loans, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5,” the Company utilizes a variety of underwriting criteria, monitors the performance of its consumer loan portfolios and maintains either an allowance or liability for estimated losses on consumer loans (including fees and interest) at a level estimated to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the receivables portfolio and expected losses from loans guaranteed under the CSO programs. The allowance deducted from the carrying value of consumer loans was $87.9 million at December 31, 2013, and the liability for estimated losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans was $3.1 million at December 31, 2013. These reserves are estimates, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than the Company’s reserves, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if the Company does not successfully manage credit risk for its unsecured consumer loans through its loan underwriting, it could incur substantial credit losses due to customers being unable to repay their loans. Any failure to manage credit risk could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to operate at an acceptable level of profitability in Mexico following the reorganization of its Mexico-based pawn operations. During the third and fourth quarters of 2012, the Company substantially completed the reorganization of its Mexico-based pawn operations that comprise the foreign component of the Company’s retail services segment so that they now include only full-service pawn locations that offer pawn loans based on the pledge of general merchandise and jewelry-based collateral (the “Mexico Reorganization”). The Company recognized $28.9 million of charges related to the Mexico Reorganization during the year ended December 31, 2012. The Company is operating 47 full-service pawn locations in Mexico as of December 31, 2013. There is no assurance that these remaining full-service pawn locations will be able to operate in Mexico at an acceptable level of profitability. If these remaining pawn locations have to be closed in the future, the Company will incur additional charges, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the period when it takes such charges. The Company is subject to impairment risk. At December 31, 2013, the Company had goodwill totaling $705.6 million, consisting of $495.2 million related to the retail services segment and $210.4 million related to the e-commerce segment, on its consolidated balance sheets, all of which represent assets capitalized in connection with the Company’s acquisitions and business combinations. In addition, at December 31, 2013, the Company had intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $52.3 million, consisting of $52.3 million which related to its retail services segment. Accounting for goodwill and intangible assets requires significant management estimates and judgment. Events may occur in the future and the Company may not realize the value of its goodwill or intangible assets. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of its goodwill and intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of goodwill or an intangible asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and could also lead to the Company’s inability to comply with certain covenants in the Company’s financing documents, which could cause a default under those agreements. 36 Table of Contents Certain tax positions taken by the Company require the judgment of management and could be challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. Management’s judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes, the deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. Management’s judgment is also required in evaluating whether tax benefits meet the more-likely-than-not threshold for recognition under ASC 740-10-25, Income Taxes. For example, in connection with the liquidation of Creazione Estilo, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican sociedad anónima de capital variable (“Creazione”), the Company will include a deduction on its 2013 federal income tax return for the Company’s tax basis in the stock of Creazione and has recognized a tax benefit of approximately $33.2 million as a result of the deduction. Management believes that the Company meets the requirements for this deduction and that it should be treated as an ordinary loss, which has reduced the Company’s cash taxes paid in 2013. The Company has obtained a Private Letter Ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), with respect to one of the various factors that the Company considered in making this determination. Because there are a number of factors that must be considered in making this determination, some of which were not specifically addressed in the Private Letter Ruling, the IRS could challenge the availability and/or characterization of the loss. If the deduction is ultimately denied or is determined to be a capital loss by the IRS, the Company may be required to reverse the previously recognized tax benefit and may be required to make additional income tax payments, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and other anticorruption laws, and the Company’s failure to comply therewith could result in penalties that could harm its reputation and have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which generally prohibits companies and their agents or intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to ensure that the Company, its employees, agents and intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, there can be no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect the Company against liability for actions taken by its employees, agents and intermediaries with respect to its business or any businesses that it may acquire. In the event that the Company believes, or has reason to believe, that its employees, agents or intermediaries have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, the Company may be required to investigate or have a third party investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. The Company’s continued operation and expansion outside the United States could increase the risk of such violations in the future. If the Company is not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), the Company may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could harm the Company’s reputation and could have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company is also subject to other anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the “Bribery Act”). The Bribery Act prohibits bribery of public officials, and it also makes failing to prevent bribery by relevant commercial organizations a criminal offense. This offense applies when any person associated with the organization offers or accepts bribes anywhere in the world intending to obtain or retain a business advantage for the organization or in the conduct of business. The Bribery Act is applicable to businesses that operate in the United Kingdom such as the Company. The Bribery Act is broader in scope than the FCPA in that it directly addresses commercial bribery in addition to bribery of government officials and it does not recognize certain exceptions, notably facilitation payments that are permitted by the FCPA. As with the FCPA, if the Company is not in compliance with the Bribery Act as well as similar laws that are applicable to the Company’s business in the United Kingdom or in other countries where the Company does business, or in the future may do business, it may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company has many competitors. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, consumer loan companies, CSOs, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of consumer loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenue and earnings in these categories. The Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, Internet retailers and internet auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenue, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. In addition, competitors of the Company’s e-commerce consumer loan business may operate, or begin to operate, under business models less focused on legal and regulatory compliance, which could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to compete successfully against any or all of its current or future competitors. As a result, the Company could lose market share and its revenue could decline, thereby affecting the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service its indebtedness and fund the Company’s operations. Any such changes in the Company’s competition could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s success is dependent, in part, upon its executive officers, and if the Company is not able to attract and retain qualified executive officers, the Company’s business could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its executive officers, which is comprised of a relatively small group of individuals. Many members of the senior management team have significant industry experience, and the Company believes that its senior management would be difficult to replace, if necessary. Because the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, the Company may not be able to attract and retain qualified executive officers or candidates. In addition, increasing regulations and negative publicity on the consumer financial services industry could affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. If the Company is unable to attract or retain qualified executive officers, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. Future acquisitions and/or the failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations could negatively impact the Company’s performance. The Company has historically grown through strategic acquisitions, and a key component of the Company’s future strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities in order to expand its product and service offerings and markets and grow its business in response to changing customer demands, regulatory environments, technologies and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, the Company may expand its offerings through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather 38 Table of Contents than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and the Company may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if the Company successfully completes an acquisition, it may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the business that it acquires, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for the Company. In addition, the Company may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute its shareholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which the Company has little or no prior experience or may expose the Company to additional material liabilities. In addition, any acquisition has the risk that the Company may not realize a return on the acquisition or the Company’s investment. Consequently, the Company may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s expansion strategy is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy for its retail services segment includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified store management personnel, the ability to access capital, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses, the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state or jurisdiction in which the Company operates or seeks to operate, which are subject to change at any time, the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on the Company’s ability to attract new customers and the ability to adapt the Company’s infrastructure and systems to accommodate its growth. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s foreign operations subject the Company to foreign exchange risk. The Company is subject to the risk of unexpected changes in foreign currency exchange rates by virtue of its loans to residents of Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and its operations in Mexico. The Company’s results of operations and certain of its intercompany balances associated with the Company’s Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and Mexico loans are denominated in their respective currencies and are, as a result, exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and the Company may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. 39 Table of Contents A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company’s pawn loan or consumer loan portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as the merchandise sold in the Company’s pawnshops. An economic slowdown could result in a decreased number of consumer loans being made to customers due to higher unemployment or an increase in loan defaults in the Company’s consumer loan products. During an economic slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would likely reduce consumer loan balances, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted consumer loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. While the credit risk for much of the Company’s pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand for and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. An inability to access the debt capital markets or obtain financing could reduce available capital. In the past, the Company has accessed the debt capital markets or utilized its line of credit with banks to obtain capital, to finance growth and to refinance existing debt obligations. Efficient access to this capital is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to debt capital could become restricted due to a variety of factors, such as a deterioration of the Company’s earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a disruption or deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company’s industry. Banks and other credit providers could restrict available lines of credit and require higher pricing upon renewal of the Company’s existing line of credit. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, and a potential disruption in the capital markets may adversely affect the Company’s efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to the Company. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to grow its business, make future investments, take advantage of potential acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges and this, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to advance its strategic plans. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds is limited, third parties with whom the Company does business may incur increased costs or business disruption and this could adversely affect the Company’s business relationships with such third parties. If the Company is unable to obtain financing it could have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictions that may limit the Company’s ability to operate its business. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants, compliance with which is essential to continued credit availability. These restrictive covenants, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur or permit certain liens to exist; • make certain investments; • merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, another company; • make certain dispositions; • make certain payments; and • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. 40 Table of Contents Some of the Company’s debt agreements also require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The covenants and restrictions contained in the debt agreements could limit the Company’s ability to fund its business, make capital expenditures, and make acquisitions or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants could constitute an event of default under the debt agreements, entitling the lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability under the agreement, and/or increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under that agreement. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12” for additional information concerning the Company’s debt agreements. Failure to satisfy the Company’s debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had $740.0 million total debt outstanding, including the Company’s line of credit, senior unsecured notes and convertible notes as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 11.” If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these debt obligations or if it is in breach of the covenants contained in the debt agreements it would default under the terms of the applicable agreement or indenture. Any such default could result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of its other debt agreements under applicable cross default provisions. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Company may be unable to protect its proprietary technology or keep up with that of its competitors. The success of the Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company may be unable to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, competitors could, without violating the Company’s proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than its technology. The Company’s failure to protect its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as its competitors’ could put the Company at a disadvantage to its competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is subject to cyber security risks and security breaches and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. The Company’s business involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. The Company’s e-commerce segment is entirely dependent on the secure operation of its websites and systems as well as the operation of the internet generally. While the Company has incurred no material cyber attacks to date, a number of other companies have disclosed cyber attacks and security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. The Company may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Attacks may be targeted at the Company, its customers, or both. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of customers, suppliers or both. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause the Company to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. 41 Table of Contents A person who is able to circumvent the Company’s security measures could misappropriate the Company’s or its customer’s proprietary information, cause interruption in the Company’s operations, damage its computers or those of its customers, or otherwise damage its reputation and business. Any compromise of security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of confidence in the Company’s security measures, which could harm its business. In addition, most of the Company’s customers provide personal information, including bank account information when applying for consumer loans. The Company relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer bank account and other personal information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by the Company to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. The Company’s servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including “denial-of-service” type attacks. The Company may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach of the Company or by persons with whom it has commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of its customers’ personal information, could damage the Company’s reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. In addition, many of the third parties who provide products, services or support to the Company could also experience any of the above cyber risks or security breaches, which could impact the Company’s customers and the Company’s business and could result in a loss of customers, suppliers or revenue. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely impact its future revenue and financial condition and increase its costs and expenses. The Company’s services, operations and pawnshops from which it provides products and services are vulnerable to damage or interruption from tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors and similar events. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business, including causing damage to merchandise or collateral that it holds in any of its retail services locations, and the Company’s insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, civil unrest or violence could cause disruptions to the Company’s business or the economy as a whole. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence to decrease, which could result in a decreased number of loans being made to customers or reduced demand for pre-owned merchandise such as the merchandise sold in the Company’s pawnshops. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that it obtains vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and management’s decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in the Company’s retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase the Company’s expenses, which could harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 42 Table of Contents The Company’s reported results require the judgment of management, and the Company could be subject to risks associated with these judgments or could be adversely affected by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements. The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at the dates of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. In addition, the Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), and GAAP and its interpretations are subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require the Company to change its financial reporting, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the Company could be required to restate historical financial reporting. Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profitability. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. Other risk factors are discussed under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • variations in results of operations; • legislative or regulatory changes, and in particular, legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Company’s consumer loan operations; • fluctuations in commodity prices; • general trends in the industry; • market conditions; • analysts’ estimates; and • perceptions of and other events related to the pawn or consumer loan industry. The market price for the Company’s common stock has varied between a high of $54.12 on March 8, 2013 and a low of $35.30 on December 5, 2013 in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2013. The Company’s stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry,” variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results from management’s expectations or those of securities analysts or investors, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates and announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. 43 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general may experience significant volatility that is unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance. Future issuances of additional shares of the Company’s common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company may, in the future, issue its previously authorized and unissued shares of common stock, including the potential issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of its 2029 Convertible Notes due 2029 (as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11”), resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of the Company’s shareholders. The Company is currently authorized to issue up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, and as of February 18, 2014, the Company had 28,119,630 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital-raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 44 Table of Contents 