Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry—Adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting the Company’s products and services could negatively impact the Company’s operations” and “—Significant changes in, or a deterioration of, the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could affect the Company’s operations in these countries.” Casualty insurance, including burglary coverage, is maintained for each of the Company’s locations, and fidelity coverage is maintained on each of the Company’s employees. 21 Table of Contents Company and Website Information The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1600 West 7th Street, Fort Worth, Texas 76102-2599, and its telephone number is (817) 335-1100. The Company’s website is located at www.cashamerica.com. Through its website, the Company provides free access to its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Executive Officers of the Registrant The Company elects its executive officers annually. The Company’s executive officers, and information about each, are listed below. There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers. Name Age Position Daniel R. Feehan 62 Chief Executive Officer and President Thomas A. Bessant, Jr. 54 Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer David A. Fisher 43 Chief Executive Officer – E-Commerce Division Timothy S. Ho(a) 32 President – E-Commerce Division Dennis J. Weese 49 President – Retail Services Division J. Curtis Linscott 47 Executive Vice President – General Counsel and Secretary (a) Mr. Ho will step down as President of the E-Commerce Division on March 29, 2013. Daniel R. Feehan has been Chief Executive Officer and President since February 2000. He served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer from January 1990 until February 2000, except that he served as Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer of one of the Company’s subsidiaries from February 1998 to February 1999 before returning to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Mr. Feehan received a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting from Texas A&M University. Thomas A. Bessant, Jr. has been the Company’s Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer since July 1998. He joined the Company in May 1993 as Vice President – Finance and Treasurer and was elected Senior Vice President – Chief Financial Officer in July 1997. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bessant was a Senior Manager in the Corporate Finance Consulting Services Group of Arthur Andersen & Co., S.C. from June 1989 to April 1993. Prior to that, Mr. Bessant was a Vice President in the Corporate Banking Division of a major money center bank where he started his professional career in 1981. Mr. Bessant holds a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Accounting and Finance from Texas Tech University and a Masters of Business Administration degree in Finance from Vanderbilt University. David A. Fisher was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the E-Commerce Division of the Company on January 29, 2013. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fisher was Chief Executive Officer of optionsXpress Holdings, Inc. (“optionsXpress”) from October 2007 until The Charles Schwab Corporation acquired the business in September 2011. Following the acquisition, Mr. Fisher served as President of optionsXpress until March 2012. Mr. Fisher also served as the President of optionsXpress from March 2007 to October 2007 and as the Chief Financial Officer of optionsXpress from August 2004 to March 2007. Prior to joining optionsXpress, Mr. Fisher served as Chief Financial Officer of Potbelly Sandwich Works from February 2001 to July 2004, and before that in the roles of Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel for Prism Financial Corporation. In addition, Mr. Fisher has served on the Board of 22 Table of Contents Directors of InnerWorkings, Inc., since November 2011 and has served on the Board of Directors of GrubHub, Inc., a venture-backed company, since May 2012. Mr. Fisher also served on the Board of Directors of optionsXpress from October 2007 until September 2011 and CBOE Holdings, Inc. from January 2007 until October 2011. Mr. Fisher received a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance from the University of Illinois and a law degree from Northwestern University School of Law. Timothy S. Ho has been President – E-Commerce Division since October 1, 2008 and has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of Enova since its formation in September 2011. Mr. Ho joined Enova International, Inc. (formerly known as CashNetUSA) in January 2006 as Director of Process Development, and he joined the Company in September 2006 as Vice President of Business Development in conjunction with the Company’s acquisition of CashNetUSA. Mr. Ho served as Senior Vice President – Strategic Development-E-Commerce Division from February 2008 until October 2008 where he oversaw the division’s strategy, marketing and analytics. Prior to joining Enova, Mr. Ho worked in program management at GE Healthcare in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from the University of Illinois. Mr. Ho will step down as President of the E-Commerce Division on March 29, 2013. Dennis J. Weese has been the President – Retail Services Division since July 2008. He joined the Company as Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer – Retail Services Division in September 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Weese was Chief Operating Officer of On The Border Mexican Grill and Cantina, a restaurant company within the Brinker International family of restaurants from July 2004 until September 2007. He also served in a number of Vice President and Director Level positions at Limited Brands Inc. from May 2001 until July 2004 and with YUM! Brands, Inc. from September 1990 to May 2001. He is a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and has earned a Master’s degree in Business Administration from Auburn University and a Master’s degree in business management from the University of Central Texas. J. Curtis Linscott has been Executive Vice President – General Counsel and Secretary since May 2006. He was appointed Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in May 2005. Mr. Linscott joined the Company in 1995, serving as Associate General Counsel and Vice President – Associate General Counsel. Before joining the Company, he was in private law practice with Kelly, Hart & Hallman, P.C. for five years. He received his law degree from the University of Kansas School of Law in 1990 and an undergraduate degree in Marketing from Kansas State University. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties that should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company. There may be additional risks and uncertainties to those listed below that are not presently known to the Company or that management currently deems immaterial that may also impair the Company’s business operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed below could have a significant adverse affect on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry Adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting the Company’s products and services could negatively impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. In addition, as the Company develops new products and services, it will become subject to additional federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action and/or could result in the assessment against the Company of civil, monetary or other penalties, could require the Company to refund interest or fees or could result in a determination that certain loans are not collectible. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations could negatively affect the Company’s business activities or effectively eliminate some of the Company’s current loan products. In particular, consumer loans have come under increased regulatory scrutiny in the United States in recent years that has resulted in increasingly restrictive regulations and legislation that makes offering such loans in certain states less profitable or unattractive to the Company. Regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database and limit the number of loans a borrower may have outstanding. Other regulations adversely impact the availability of some of the Company’s consumer loan products to active duty military personnel, active members of the National Guard or members on active reserve duty and their immediate dependents. Legislative or regulatory activities may also limit the amount of interest and fees to levels that do not permit the offering of consumer loans to be feasible or may limit the number of consumer loans that customers may receive or have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of certain consumer loan products to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. In particular, both the executive and legislative branches of the U.S. federal government continue to receive significant pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups, and those governmental branches have recently exhibited an increased interest in debating legislation that could further regulate consumer loan products. The U.S. Congress has debated, and may in the future adopt, proposed legislation that could, among other things, place a cap on the effective annual percentage rate on consumer loan transactions (which could encompass both the Company’s consumer loan and pawn businesses), place a cap on the dollar amount of fees that may be charged for consumer loans, ban or limit loan renewals or extensions (where the customer agrees to pay the current finance charge on a loan for the right to make payment of the outstanding principal balance of such loan at a later date plus an additional finance charge), including the rates to be charged for loan renewals or extensions, require the Company to offer an extended payment plan, allow for only minimal origination fees for advances, require short-term lenders to be bonded or require lenders to report consumer loan activity to databases designed to monitor or restrict consumer borrowing activity. The Company follows legislative and regulatory developments in each state where it does business. In addition, since 2007, legislative changes that have been enacted in Arizona, Colorado, Delaware, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Montana, New Hampshire, Ohio, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin impact some of the consumer loan products the Company has historically offered in those states. Due to these legislative changes, the Company has ceased offering consumer loans in the States of Arizona, Montana and New Hampshire and discontinued its Credit Services Organization program in Maryland. In addition, these changes have also altered the parameters upon which the Company offers some of its consumer loans to consumers in the other states mentioned above, which has generally had the effect of reducing the profitability and the volume of the consumer loans the Company offers to customers in these other states. See “Item 1. Business—Recent Developments—Recent Regulatory and Other Developments” for additional information regarding recent regulatory developments. 24 Table of Contents The Company cannot currently assess the likelihood of any future unfavorable federal or state legislation or regulations being proposed or enacted that could affect the Company’s products and services, including consumer loans and pawn loans. The Company is closely monitoring proposed legislation being discussed in states such as Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio and Texas, among others. There can be no assurance that additional legislative or regulatory initiatives will not be enacted that could severely restrict, prohibit or eliminate the Company’s ability to offer a consumer loan product. Any federal or state legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts, by imposing an annual percentage rate limit on consumer loan transactions or otherwise prohibits, or places restrictions on, consumer loans and similar services, if enacted, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, the Company’s business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulation and permit licensing. Local jurisdictions’ efforts to restrict pawnshop operations and short-term lending through the use of local zoning and permitting laws have been increasing. Actions taken in the future by local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on consumer lending or short-term lenders could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. As described further below, the Company is also subject to foreign laws in the countries in which it operates or offers loan products. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could have a significant impact on the Company’s U.S. consumer loan business. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), and Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), which regulates consumer financial products and services, including consumer loans offered by the Company. On January 4, 2012, President Obama appointed a Director of the CFPB in a recess appointment bypassing Senate confirmation. Although there remain doubts about the legality of this appointment and the appointment is subject to legal challenge, the CFPB has begun exercising supervisory review over certain non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services, including providers of consumer loans such as the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act gave the CFPB, among other things, authority to examine and require registration of providers of consumer financial products and services, including providers of consumer loans such as the Company; the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful; and the authority to impose record-keeping obligations. The Company does not currently know the nature and extent of the rules that the CFPB will consider with respect to consumer loan products and services such as those offered by the Company or the timeframe in which the CFPB may consider such rules. The CFPB has indicated that it intends to systematically gather data to obtain a complete picture of the consumer loan market and its impact on consumers, and the CFPB has also released its Short-Term, Small-Dollar Lending Examination Procedures, which is the field guide for CFPB examiners to use when examining small-dollar lenders such as the Company. The CFPB’s examination authority permits CFPB examiners to inspect the Company’s books and records and ask questions about its business, and the examination procedures include specific modules for examining marketing activities, loan application and origination activities, payment processing activities and sustained use by consumers, collections, accounts in default, consumer reporting and third-party relationships, as well as the Company’s compliance program. Although the CFPB does not have the authority to regulate interest rates, it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt new rules that require certain changes to short-term consumer lending products and services, including certain short-term loans offered by or through the Company, which could make these products and services materially less profitable or even impractical to offer and could force the Company to modify or terminate certain of its product offerings in the United States. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to other consumer loan products and services. Any new rules adopted by the CFPB could also result in significant compliance costs to the Company. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition or could make the continuance of all or part of the Company’s U.S. consumer loan business impractical or unprofitable. 25 Table of Contents In furtherance of its regulatory and supervisory powers, the CFPB has the authority to impose monetary penalties for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws, require remediation of practices and pursue enforcement actions. The CFPB has the authority to obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions to remedy violations of state law. If the CFPB or one or more state attorneys general or state regulators or the Federal Trade Commission, acting under the Federal Trade Commission Act, believe that the Company has violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its business. Negative public perception of the Company’s business, specifically its consumer loan business and its business practices, could cause demand for the Company’s products to significantly decrease. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. Such consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the Annual Percentage Rate to a consumer for this type of loan, which is compared unfavorably to the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with top-tier credit histories. The fees charged by the Company and others in the industry attract media publicity about the industry and can be perceived as controversial by those who do not focus on the credit risk and high transaction costs of serving the Company’s customer segment. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for any or all of the consumer loan products offered by the Company could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to short-term loans or other consumer loan products offered by the Company that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. In addition, the Company’s ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of its level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters—even if related to seemingly isolated incidents—could erode trust and confidence and damage the Company’s reputation among existing and potential customers, which could make it difficult for the Company to attract new customers and maintain existing ones and could significantly decrease the demand for the Company’s products. Significant changes in, or a deterioration of, the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could affect the Company’s operations in these countries. Significant changes in, or a deterioration of, the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could restrict the ability of the Company to sustain or expand its operations in these countries, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue its operations in these countries. In Mexico, restrictions and regulations affecting pawn services, including licensing restrictions, disclosure requirements and limits on interest rates have been and likely will in the future be proposed from time to time. The Company also maintains business relationships with significant third-party service providers. The failure of key service providers to fulfill their obligations as a result of regulatory, political, economic or other factors could disrupt the Company’s operations in Mexico. The Company’s business in Mexico is also subject to other potential risks and 26 Table of Contents uncertainties that are beyond the Company’s control, such as violence, social unrest, enforcement of property rights and public safety and security, which could restrict or eliminate the Company’s ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic or demand. In addition, the Company offers consumer loans, either directly or through an independent third-party lender, over the Internet to customers in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom and Australia have recently exhibited an increasing interest in considering legislation that could regulate or restrict the consumer loan products the Company offers. In Australia the Company acts as a finance broker, offering the lending products of unaffiliated third-party lenders, which is similar to the Company’s credit services organization (“CSO”) programs in the United States. In Australia, the Company follows the responsible lending guidelines under the National Consumer Credit Protection Act (2010) (the “NCCPA”), which has been recently amended. Part of the amendment will become effective on March 1, 2013, and the remainder will become effective on July 1, 2013. The amendment includes limitations on permissible fees charged on certain consumer loans, including consumer loans arranged by the Company. The Company is still assessing the impact of this amendment on the product offered in Australia, but the Company expects that the product will be modified as a result of this amendment, which could make the product less profitable or could eliminate the Company’s ability to offer lending products in Australia. The Company may even need to exit Australia if the product cannot be modified in a way that retains their profitability in that country. In the United Kingdom, the Company must follow the Irresponsible Lending Guidance of the Office of Fair Trading (the “OFT”) and the Consumer Credit Act of 1974 that was amended by the Consumer Credit Act of 2006 (collectively, the “CCA”), among other rules and regulations. In December 2012, the U.K. Parliament passed the Financial Services Act of 2012 (the “Act”), certain provisions of which take effect on April 1, 2013 and April 1, 2014. The Act makes changes to the CCA and the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 (the “FSMA”) and gives the OFT the power to suspend consumer credit licenses with immediate effect or from a date specified. The Act also creates the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which will take over responsibility for regulating consumer credit from the OFT in April 2014. The FCA may regulate consumer credit pursuant to the guidance of the FSMA, which includes prescriptive regulations that currently govern the secured credit market and could possibly call for the repeal of the CCA or for enabling legislation in the United Kingdom. Prescriptive regulations, as contrasted with principles-based regulations that currently regulate the lending process in the United Kingdom, define what a lender may and may not do with a specific product, similar to U.S. law. However, the U.K. coalition government has reserved the option to retain the principles-based CCA provisions should it conclude that a regulatory model for unsecured consumer credit under the FSMA and FCA cannot be delivered in an effective regulatory manner. During the period of transition of regulatory responsibility over consumer credit from the OFT to the FCA, the OFT will continue to fully and rigorously regulate consumer credit, including the short-term loan market. If prescriptive regulations are adopted, the Company’s compliance costs will be significantly increased. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial conditions and could impair its ability to continue current operations in the United Kingdom. In addition, in October 2011, the OFT issued debt collection guidance that was revised in November 2012. This debt collection guidance allows consumer lenders such as the Company to debit a customer’s account, which includes debits to both bank accounts and debit cards, in a “reasonable and non-excessive manner.” The Company has not experienced a material adverse impact on its business as a result of this guidance. The OFT may, in the future, issue additional guidance that could require further adjustments to the Company’s collections processes and could result in lower collections on loans made by the Company and a decrease in the number of customers that it is able to approve. In February 2012, the OFT also announced that it had launched a review of the payday lending sector in the United Kingdom to assess the sector’s compliance with the CCA, the OFT’s Irresponsible Lending Guidelines and other relevant guidance and legal obligations. The OFT has announced that these inspections could be used to assess a licensee’s fitness to hold a consumer credit license and could result in formal enforcement action where appropriate. The OFT is expected to announce its findings during the first quarter of 2013. If the Company is required to make changes to its consumer loan operations in the United Kingdom as a result, such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s foreign business, prospects, results or operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue its current operations. The Company’s earnings and financial position are subject to changes in the value of gold. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect the Company’s earnings. A significant portion of the Company’s pawn loans are secured by gold jewelry. The Company’s pawn service charges, sales proceeds and ability to dispose of excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin depend on the value of gold. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreases in merchandise sales margins, in inventory valuations, in the value of collateral securing outstanding pawn loans, and in the balance of pawn loans secured by gold jewelry. Any such change in the value of gold could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to operate at an acceptable level of profitability in Mexico after its Mexico-based pawn operations are reorganized. During the third and fourth quarters of 2012, the Company substantially completed the reorganization of its Mexico-based pawn operations that comprise the foreign component of its retail services segment to include only full-service pawn locations that offer pawn loans based on the pledge of general merchandise and jewelry-based collateral (“the Mexico Reorganization”). The Company recognized $28.9 million of charges related to the Mexico Reorganization during the year ended December 31, 2012. Following the Mexico Reorganization, the Company expects to continue operating 47 full-service pawn locations in Mexico. There is no assurance that these remaining full-service pawn locations will be able to operate in Mexico at an acceptable level of profitability. If these remaining pawn locations have to be closed in the future, the Company will incur additional charges, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the period when it takes such charge. Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been and is currently subject to lawsuits (including purported class actions) that could cause it to incur substantial expenditures and generate adverse publicity. The Company is also likely to be subject to further litigation in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation could cause the Company to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate the Company’s operations in particular states. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of the Company’s management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to regulatory proceedings, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those regulatory proceedings, even if it is not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. Adverse court interpretations of the laws and regulations under which the Company operates could require the Company to alter the products it offers or impair the Company’s ability to offer certain products. On May 28, 2009, a subsidiary of the Company, Ohio Neighborhood Finance, Inc., doing business as Cashland (“Cashland”), filed a standard collections suit in an Elyria Municipal Court in Ohio against Rodney Scott seeking judgment against Mr. Scott in the amount of $570.16, which was the amount due under his loan agreement. Cashland’s loan was offered under the Ohio Mortgage Loan Act (“OMLA”), which allows for interest at a rate of 25% per annum plus certain loan fees allowed by the statute. The Municipal Court held that short-term, single-payment consumer loans made by Cashland are not authorized under the OMLA, and instead should have been offered under the Ohio Short-Term Lender Law, which was passed by the Ohio legislature in 2008 for consumer loans with similar terms. Due to a cap on interest and loan fees at an amount that is less than permitted under OMLA, the Company does not offer loans under the Ohio Short-Term Lender Law. On December 3, 2012, the Ohio Ninth District Court of Appeals affirmed the Municipal Court’s ruling in a 2-1 decision. Although this court decision is only legally binding in the Ninth District of Ohio, which includes four counties in northern Ohio where Cashland operates seven stores, other Ohio courts may consider this decision. The Company filed an appeal of the Ninth District Court’s decision with the Ohio Supreme Court on January 17, 2013 because it believes that this decision is contrary to the language of the OMLA, and the Ohio Supreme Court has not yet determined whether it will hear the appeal. If the Ninth District Court’s decision is upheld by the Ohio Supreme Court on appeal, the Company’s Ohio operations may be adversely affected. The Company relies on the OMLA to make short-term loans in its retail services locations in Ohio, and if the Company is unable to continue making short-term loans under this law, it will have to alter its short-term loan product in Ohio. In addition, the Company has received, and may in the future receive, claims that it improperly made loans under the OMLA, which could result in material losses to the Company or require the Company to make refunds in connection with certain short-term loans made under the OMLA. Adverse court interpretations of the various laws and regulations under which the Company operates could require the Company to alter the products that it offers or cease doing business in the jurisdiction where the court interpretation is applicable. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s consumer loan revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third-party lenders to make loans to customers and other third parties to provide services to facilitate lending and loan underwriting in both the storefront and online lending consumer loan channels. The loss of the relationship with any of these third parties, and an inability to replace them or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services or to have the ability to provide their products and services, could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company’s consumer loan business. The Company offers other services provided by various third-party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its products or services, does not maintain its quality and consistency or fails to have the ability to provide its products and services, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such third parties to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers’ financial conditions. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the consumer loan operations of the Company and the products it offers. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If the Company’s allowance for losses and liability for estimated losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans are not adequate to absorb losses or if the Company does not successfully manage its credit risk for unsecured consumer loans, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6,” the Company utilizes a variety of underwriting criteria, monitors the performance of its consumer loan portfolios and maintains either an allowance or liability for estimated losses on consumer loans (including fees and interest) at a level estimated to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the receivables portfolio and expected losses from loans guaranteed under the CSO programs. The allowance deducted from the carrying value of consumer loans was $85.7 million at December 31, 2012, and the liability for estimated losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans was $3.5 million at December 31, 2012. These reserves are estimates, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than the Company’s reserves, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if the Company does not successfully manage credit risk for its unsecured consumer loans through its loan underwriting, it could incur substantial credit losses due to customers being unable to repay their loans. Any failure to manage credit risk could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has many competitors. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, consumer loan companies, credit service organizations, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of consumer loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, internet retailers and internet auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. The Company’s success is dependent, in part, upon its executive officers, and if the Company is not able to attract and retain qualified executive officers, its business could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its executive officers, which is comprised of a relatively small group of individuals. Many members of the senior management team have significant industry experience, and the Company believes that its senior management would be difficult to replace, if necessary. Because the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, the Company may not be able to attract and retain qualified executive officers or candidates. In addition, increasing regulations on the consumer financial services industry could affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers. If the Company is unable to attract or retain qualified executive officers, it could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company’s facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends highly upon its employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as internet support, call centers, and processing and making consumer loans. Additionally, the Company’s storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company’s point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company’s internet operations, storefront point-of-sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process internet consumer loans, perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. Any such interruption could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s expansion strategy is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy for its retail services segment includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified store management personnel, the ability to access capital, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses, the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state or jurisdiction in which the Company operates or seeks to operate, which are subject to change at any time, the degree of competition in new 30 Table of Contents markets and its effect on the Company’s ability to attract new customers and the ability to adapt the Company’s infrastructure and systems to accommodate its growth. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions and/or the failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations could negatively impact the Company’s performance. The Company has historically grown through strategic acquisitions, and a key component of the Company’s future strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities in order to expand its product and service offerings and markets and grow its business in response to changing customer demands, regulatory environments, technologies and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, the Company may expand its offerings through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and the Company may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if the Company successfully completes an acquisition, it may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the business that it acquires, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for the Company. In addition, the Company may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute its shareholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which the Company has little or no prior experience or may expose the Company to additional material liabilities. In addition, any acquisition has the risk that the Company may not realize a return on the acquisition or the Company’s investment. Consequently, the Company may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s foreign operations subject the Company to foreign exchange risk. The Company is subject to the risk of unexpected changes in foreign currency exchange rates by virtue of its loans to residents of Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and its operations in Mexico. The Company’s results of operations and certain of its intercompany balances associated with the Company’s Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and Mexico loans are denominated in their respective currencies and are, as a result, exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and the Company may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company’s pawn loan or consumer loan portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as the merchandise sold in the Company’s pawnshops. An economic slowdown could result in a decreased number of consumer loans being made to customers due to higher unemployment or an increase in loan defaults in the Company’s consumer loan products. During an economic slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would likely reduce consumer loan balances, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted consumer loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. While the credit risk for much of the Company’s pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. 31 Table of Contents Changes in the Company’s financial condition or a potential disruption in the capital markets could reduce available capital. In the past, the Company has accessed the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a disruption or deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company’s industry by market participants. Disruptions and volatility in the capital markets may cause banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit facilities and require higher pricing upon renewal of existing credit facilities. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, and a potential disruption in the capital markets may adversely affect the Company’s efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to the Company. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of potential acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges and this, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to advance its strategic plans. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds is limited, third parties with whom the Company does business may incur increased costs or business disruption and this could adversely affect the Company’s business relationships with such third parties. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictions that may limit its ability to operate its business. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants, compliance with which is essential to continued credit availability. These restrictive covenants, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur or permit certain liens to exist; • make certain investments; • merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, another company; • make certain dispositions; • make certain payments; and • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Some of the Company’s debt agreements also require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The covenants and restrictions contained in the debt agreements could limit the Company’s ability to fund its business, make capital expenditures, and make acquisitions or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants could constitute an event of default under the debt agreements, entitling the lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability under the agreement, and/or increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under that agreement. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. Failure to satisfy the Company’s debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had $578.3 million total debt outstanding, including the Company’s line of credit, senior unsecured notes and 2009 Convertible Notes as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 13.” If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these debt obligations or if it is in breach of the covenants contained in the debt agreements it would default under the terms of the applicable agreement or indenture. Any such 32 Table of Contents default could result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of its other debt agreements under applicable cross default provisions. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Company is subject to impairment risk. At December 31, 2012, the Company had goodwill totaling $608.2 million, consisting of $397.8 million related to the retail services segment and $210.4 million related to the e-commerce segment, on its consolidated balance sheets, all of which represent assets capitalized in connection with the Company’s acquisitions and business combinations. In addition, at December 31, 2012, the Company had intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $36.5 million, consisting of $36.3 million related to its retail services segment and $0.2 million related to the e-commerce segment. Accounting for goodwill and intangible assets requires significant management estimates and judgment. Events may occur in the future and the Company may not realize the value of its goodwill or intangible assets. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of its goodwill and intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of goodwill or an intangible asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the goodwill or intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and could also lead to the Company’s inability to comply with certain covenants in the Company’s financing documents, which could cause a default under those agreements. The Company may be unable to protect its proprietary technology or keep up with that of its competitors. The success of the Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company may be unable to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, competitors could, without violating the Company’s proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than its technology. The Company’s failure to protect its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as its competitors’ could put the Company at a disadvantage to its competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is subject to cyber security risks and security breaches and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. The Company’s business involves the storage and transmission of users’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose it to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. The Company’s e-commerce segment is entirely dependent on the secure operation of its websites and systems as well as the operation of the internet generally. A number of companies have disclosed security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. The Company may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Attacks may be targeted at the Company, its customers, or both. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of customers, suppliers or both. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause the Company to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. A person who is able to circumvent the Company’s security measures could misappropriate the Company’s or its users’ proprietary information, cause interruption in its operations, damage its computers or those of its users, or otherwise damage its reputation and business. Any compromise of security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of confidence in its security measures, which could harm its business. 33 Table of Contents Most of the Company’s customers provide personal information, including bank account information when applying for consumer loans. The Company relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer bank account and other personal information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by the Company to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Data breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues. The Company’s servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including “denial-of-service” type attacks. The Company may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach by the Company or by persons with whom it has commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of its users’ personal information, could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. In addition, many of the third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company could also experience any of the above cyber risks or security breaches, which could impact the Company’s customers and the Company’s business and could result in a loss of customers, suppliers or revenue. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements the Company uses illegal or unenforceable. The Company includes arbitration provisions in its consumer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow the Company to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. The Company’s arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. The Company takes the position that the arbitration provisions in its consumer loan agreements are valid and enforceable; however, the enforceability of arbitration provisions is often challenged in court. If those challenges are successful, the Company’s arbitration and class action waiver provisions could be unenforceable, which could subject the Company to additional litigation, including additional class action litigation. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts and has enacted legislation with such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loan agreements and also certain consumer loan agreements to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to the U.S. Congress, and it authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. Any such rule would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements). Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair the Company’s ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase the Company’s exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions. Such litigation would be costly and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents The Company’s operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely impact its future revenue and financial condition and increase its costs and expenses. The Company’s services, operations and pawnshops from which it provides its products and services are vulnerable to damage or interruption from tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors and similar events. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and the Company’s insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate the Company for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, civil unrest or violence could cause disruptions to the Company’s business or the economy as a whole. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that the Company obtains vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and management’s decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in the Company’s retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase the Company’s expenses, which could harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s reported results could be adversely affected by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements. The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), and GAAP and its interpretations are subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require the Company to change its financial reporting, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the Company could be required to restate historical financial reporting. Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. Other risk factors are discussed under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • variations in results of operations; • legislative or regulatory changes, and in particular, legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Company’s consumer loan operations; • fluctuations in commodity prices; • general trends in the industry; • market conditions; 35 Table of Contents • analysts’ estimates; and • perceptions of and other events related to the consumer loan industry. The market price for the Company’s common stock has varied between a high of $49.42 on March 28, 2012 and a low of $34.21 on November 16, 2012 in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2012. The Company’s stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry,” variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results from management’s expectations or those of securities analysts or investors, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates and announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, the stock market in general may experience significant volatility that is unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance. Future issuances of additional shares of the Company’s common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company may, in the future, issue its previously authorized and unissued shares of common stock, including the potential issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the 2009 Convertible Notes (as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13”), resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of the Company’s shareholders. The Company is currently authorized to issue up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, and as of February 19, 2013, the Company had 28,811,280 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital-raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 Table of Contents 