ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We caution you that our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The factors listed below are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results and from projections in forward-looking statements contained in this report, in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), in our news releases and in oral statements by our representatives. However, other factors that we do not anticipate or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information may also have an adverse effect on our results. Risks Related to the Food Service Industry. Food service businesses such as ours may be materially and adversely affected by changes in consumer tastes, national and regional economic, political and socioeconomic conditions and changes in consumer eating habits, whether based on new information regarding diet, nutrition and health, or otherwise. Adverse economic conditions, including higher levels of unemployment, lower levels of consumer confidence and decreased consumer spending have and may continue to reduce restaurant traffic and sales and impose practical limits on pricing. If adverse economic conditions persist for an extended period of time, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their spending behavior. The impact of these factors may be exacerbated by the geographic distribution of our business. Given that approximately 70% of the restaurants in our Jack in the Box system are located in the states of California and Texas, the economic conditions, state and local laws, government regulations, weather conditions and natural disasters affecting those states may have a material impact upon our results. The performance of our business may also be adversely affected by factors such as: • seasonal sales fluctuations; • severe weather and other natural disasters; • unfavorable trends or developments concerning operating costs such as inflation, increased cost of food, labor, fuel, utilities, technology, insurance and employee benefits (including increases in hourly wages, workers’ compensation and other insurance costs and premiums); • the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased competition generally; • lack of customer acceptance of new menu items or potential price increases necessary to cover higher input costs; • customers trading down to lower priced items and/or shifting to competitors with lower priced products; • the availability of qualified, experienced management and hourly employees; and • unsuccessful marketing programs. 10 Table of Contents If market conditions deteriorate or if operating results decline unexpectedly, we may be required to record impairment charges, which will negatively impact results of operations for the periods in which they are recorded. Due to the foregoing factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for a full fiscal year and these fluctuations may cause our operating results to be below expectations of public market analysts and investors, adversely impacting our stock price. Risks Related to Food Costs. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs and availability, fuel costs and other supply and distribution costs. Additionally, prices for feed ingredients used to produce beef and chicken could be adversely affected by changes in worldwide supply and demand or by regulatory mandates. Further, increases in fuel prices could result in increased distribution costs. Throughout 2011, commodity costs increased significantly, outpacing general inflation and industry expectations, and volatile conditions are expected to continue in the future. We seek to manage our costs, including through long-term fixed price contracts and strong category management and purchasing fundamentals. However, we cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react effectively to changing food costs by adjusting purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may not be able to pass along price increases to our customers as a result of adverse economic conditions or the prices offered by our competitors. Although the number of Jack in the Box company-operated restaurants has decreased over the past several years as a result of our refranchising strategy, a significant number of our restaurants remain company-operated, so we continue to have exposure to operating cost issues. Exposure to these fluctuating costs, including increases in commodity costs, could negatively impact our margins as well as franchise margins and franchisee financial health. Risk Related to Our Brands and Reputation. Multi-unit food service businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, particularly regarding food quality, nutritional content, safety or public health issues (such as epidemics or the prospect of a pandemic), obesity or other health concerns. Adverse publicity in these areas could damage the trust customers place in our brand. We believe we have selected high-caliber, experienced franchisees. However, we cannot control the actions of our franchisees, and if customers have negative perceptions or experiences with operational execution, food quality or safety at our franchised locations, our brands could suffer, and this could have an adverse effect on our business. To minimize the risk of foodborne illness, we have implemented a HACCP system for managing food safety and quality. Nevertheless, these risks cannot be completely eliminated. Any outbreak of such illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry, or any widespread negative publicity regarding our brands or the restaurant industry in general could cause a decline in our restaurant sales and sales of franchises, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the success of our business strategy depends on the value and relevance of brand and reputation and in part on our continued ability to use our trademarks and service marks. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands, in order to increase brand awareness in both existing and new markets. If customers perceive that we fail to deliver a consistently positive experience, our brands could suffer which could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, while we devote considerable efforts and resources to protecting our intellectual property, if these efforts are not successful, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Associated with Suppliers and Distributors. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and other food products subjects food service businesses such as ours to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients or require us to incur additional costs to obtain adequate supplies. Our deliveries of supplies may be affected by adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, supplier financial or solvency issues, product recalls, failure to meet our high standards for quality or other issues. In addition, if any of our suppliers, vendors or contractors do not perform adequately or if any one or more of such entities seeks to terminate its agreement or fails to perform as anticipated, or if there is 11 Table of Contents any disruption in any of our supply relationships or distribution operations for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Severe Weather and Natural Disasters. Food service businesses such as ours can be materially and adversely affected by severe weather conditions, such as severe storms, hurricanes, flooding, prolonged drought or protracted heat waves, and natural disasters, such as earthquakes and wild fires, and their aftermath, which can result in: • lost restaurant sales when consumers stay home or are physically prevented from reaching the restaurants; • property damage and lost sales when locations are forced to close for extended periods of time; • interruptions in supply when vendors suffer damages or transportation is affected; and • increased costs if agricultural capacity is diminished or if insurance recoveries do not cover all our losses. If systemic or widespread adverse changes in climate or weather patterns occur, we could experience more of these losses, and such losses could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Development. Development is critical to our long-term success. We intend to grow by developing additional company-owned restaurants and through new restaurant development by franchisees. Development involves substantial risks, including the risk of: • the availability of financing for the Company and for franchisees at acceptable rates and terms; • development costs exceeding budgeted or contracted amounts; • delays in completion of construction; • the inability to identify, or the unavailability of suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms; • developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; • the negative impact of a new restaurant upon sales at nearby existing restaurants; • competition for suitable development sites; • incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event a development project is abandoned prior to completion; • the inability to obtain all required governmental permits, including, in appropriate cases, liquor licenses; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and interpretations (including interpretations of the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act); and • general economic and business conditions. Although we manage our development activities to reduce such risks, we cannot assure that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. Our inability to expand in accordance with our plans or to manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Entering New Markets. Our growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets where we have no existing locations. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographic markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. We may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products or attract new customers. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and new geographic markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographic markets in which we have substantial experience. It may also be difficult for us or our franchisees to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel to manage restaurants. We cannot assure that company or franchise restaurants can be operated profitably in new geographic markets. Management decisions to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets may result in impairment charges. 12 Table of Contents Risk Relating to Competition and Successful Execution of our Operational Strategies and Initiatives. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel, advertising, brand identification and the type and quality of food. There are many well-established competitors. Each of our restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned and/or independent quick-service restaurants, fast-casual restaurants, sandwich shops and similar types of businesses. The trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services may increase the number of our competitors. Such increased competition could decrease the demand for our products and negatively affect our sales and profitability. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. Certain of our competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in the past, and may adopt similar strategies in the future. Our promotional strategies or other actions during unfavorable competitive conditions may adversely affect our margins. We continue to make improvements to our facilities, introduce new, higher-quality products, discontinue certain menu items and implement new service and training initiatives. However, there can be no assurance that our facility improvements will foster increases in sales and yield the desired return on investment, our new products, service initiatives or our overall strategies will be successful, or competitive product offerings, pricing and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon our sales results and financial condition. The success of our strategy depends on, among other factors, our ability to motivate restaurant personnel and franchisees to execute our initiatives and achieve sustained high service levels. Risks Related to Increased Labor Costs and Regulation. Various federal and state labor laws govern our company and franchise operations and employee relationships, including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions and fringe benefit requirements. We have a substantial number of employees who are paid wage rates at or slightly above the minimum wage. While execution of our Jack in the Box refranchising strategy has and continues to reduce our overall employee count, increases in federal, state and local minimum wage rates increase labor costs for us and our franchisees. If competitive pressures, adverse economic conditions or other factors prevent us from offsetting the increased costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulation, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, could increase our expenses, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Advertising. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which enable them to purchase significantly more television and radio advertising than we are able to purchase. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, should the cost of television or radio advertising increase or our advertising funds decrease for any reason, including reduced sales or implementation of reduced spending strategies, or should our advertising and promotion be less effective than our competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, the trend toward fragmentation in the media favored by our target consumers poses challenges and risks for our marketing and advertising strategies. Failure to effectively tackle these challenges and risks could also have a materially adverse effect on our results. Taxes. Our income tax provision is sensitive to expected earnings and, as those expectations change, our income tax provisions may vary from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. In addition, from time to time, we may take positions for filing our tax returns that differ from the treatment for financial reporting purposes. The ultimate outcome of such positions could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Risks Related to Achieving Increased Jack in the Box Franchise Ownership and Reducing Operating Costs. At October 2, 2011, we had reached the low-end of our target range of franchise ownership under our refranchising strategy, with approximately 72% of the Jack in the Box restaurants being franchised. We plan to continue to implement our strategy to increase the percentage of franchise restaurants to approximately 80%, a level of franchise ownership more closely aligned with that of the quick service restaurant industry. However, this strategy is subject to risks and uncertainties and we may not be able to achieve or maintain the ownership mix of franchise to company-operated restaurants that we desire. We may not be able to continue to identify 13 Table of Contents franchisee candidates with appropriate experience and financial resources or to negotiate mutually acceptable agreements with them. Our franchisee candidates may not be able to obtain financing at acceptable rates and terms. Current credit market conditions may slow the rate at which we are able to refranchise. Our ability to sell franchises and to realize gains from such sales is uncertain. We have seen, and further anticipate, that our operating costs will be reduced as the number of company-operated restaurants decreases; however, the ability to reduce our operating costs through increased franchise ownership is subject to risks and uncertainties, and we may not achieve reductions in costs at the rate we desire, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Franchisee Financial and Business Operations. The opening and continued success of franchise restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises, the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing and the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees and developers. See “Risks Associated with Development” and “Risks Related to Achieving Increased Jack in the Box Franchise Ownership and Reducing Operating Costs” above. We cannot assure you that franchisees and developers planning the opening of franchise restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. Our franchisees and developers may not have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operation, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as standards set forth in our agreements with them. However, franchisees are independent third parties we do not control. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with applicable laws and required standards, royalty, and in some cases rent, payments to us, may be adversely affected and, potentially, the brands’ image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could negatively impact our business and operating results. As the number of franchisees has increased and continues to increase, the percentage of our revenues derived from royalties and rents at franchise restaurants will increase, as will the risk that earnings could be negatively impacted by defaults in the payment of royalties and rents. In addition, franchisee business obligations may not be limited to the operation of Jack in the Box or Qdoba restaurants, making them subject to business and financial risks unrelated to the operation of our restaurants. These unrelated risks could adversely affect a franchisee’s ability to make payments to us or to make payments on a timely basis. We cannot assure that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concepts and standards. As compared to some of our competitors, Jack in the Box has relatively fewer franchisees who, on average, operate more restaurants per franchisee. There are significant risks to our business if a franchisee, particularly one who operates a large number of restaurants, encounters financial difficulties or fails to adhere to our standards and projects an image inconsistent with our brands. Risks Related to Loss of Key Personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain the services of skilled personnel, including key executives. The loss of services of any such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Government Regulations. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. The increasing amount and complexity of regulations may increase both our costs of compliance and our exposure to regulatory claims. We are subject to regulations including but not limited to those related to: • the preparation, labeling, advertising and sale of food; • building and zoning requirements; • employee healthcare; 14 Table of Contents • health, sanitation and safety standards; • liquor licenses; • labor and employment, including our relationships with employees and work eligibility requirements; • the registration, offer, sale, termination and renewal of franchises; • consumer protection and the security of information; • Americans with Disabilities Act; • payment card regulation and related industry rules; and • climate change, including the potential impact of greenhouse gases, water consumption, or a tax on carbon emissions. Risks Related to Computer Systems and Information Technology and Security. We increasingly rely on computer systems and information technology to conduct our business. A material failure or interruption of service or a breach in security of our computer systems could cause reduced efficiency in operations, loss of data and business interruptions and could impact delivery of food to restaurants or financial functions such as vendor payment or employee payroll. We have insurance and business continuity plans to attempt to anticipate and mitigate such failures but it is possible that significant capital investment could be required to rectify these problems, or more likely that cash flows could be impacted, in the shorter term. While our security architecture is decentralized, such that payment card information is confined to the restaurant where the transaction took place, a security breach involving our point of sale or other systems could result in loss of consumer confidence and potential costs associated with consumer fraud or privacy breach, which are subject to increasing regulation. The costs of compliance, including increased investment in technology in order to protect consumer information, may negatively impact our margins. Risks Related to the Failure of Internal Controls. We maintain a documented system of internal controls, which is reviewed and monitored by an Internal Control Committee and tested by the Company’s full-time internal audit department. The internal audit department reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal controls on the business; however, we cannot be certain that our controls will be adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing or detecting all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. If our internal controls are ineffective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Environmental and Land Risks and Regulations. We own or are a general lessor on a majority of our Jack in the Box company-owned and franchised restaurant sites, and have engaged and may engage in real estate development projects. As is the case with any owner or operator of real property, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts of law, which could adversely affect operations. We are unaware of any significant hazards on properties we own or have owned, or operate or have operated, the remediation of which would result in material liability for the Company. Accordingly, we do not have environmental liability insurance, nor do we maintain a reserve to cover such events. In the event of the determination of contamination on such properties, the Company, as owner or operator, could be held liable for severe penalties and costs of remediation. Risks Related to Leverage. The Company has a $600 million credit facility, which is comprised of a $400 million revolving credit facility and a $200 million term loan. We may also request the issuance of up to 15 Table of Contents $75 million in letters of credit. Increased leverage resulting from borrowings under the credit facility could have certain material adverse effects on the Company, including but not limited to the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate or other purposes could be impaired, or any such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us; • a substantial portion of our cash flows could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes; • any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations or sell assets; • our ability to operate our business as well as our ability to repurchase stock or pay cash dividends to our stockholders may be restricted by the financial and other covenants set forth in the credit facility; • our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be decreased; and • our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to repay expected borrowings under our credit facility and to meet our other debt or contractual obligations (including compliance with applicable financial covenants) will depend upon our future performance and our cash flows from operations, both of which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other known and unknown risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond our control. In addition, to the extent that banks in our revolving credit facility become insolvent, our ability to borrow to the full level of our facility could be limited. Risks of Market Volatility. Many factors affect the trading price of our stock, including factors over which we have no control, such as reports on the economy or the price of commodities, as well as negative or positive announcements by competitors, regardless of whether the report relates directly to our business. In addition to investor expectations about our prospects, trading activity in our stock can reflect the portfolio strategies and investment allocation changes of institutional holders and non-operating initiatives such as a share repurchase program. Any failure to meet market expectations whether for sales, growth rates, refranchising goals, earnings per share or other metrics could cause our share price to drop. Risks of Changes in Accounting Policies and Assumptions. Changes in accounting standards, policies or related interpretations by accountants or regulatory entities may negatively impact our results. Many accounting standards require management to make subjective assumptions and estimates, such as those required for stock compensation, tax matters, pension costs, litigation, insurance accruals and asset impairment calculations. Changes in those underlying assumptions and estimates could significantly change our results. Litigation. We are subject to complaints or litigation brought by former, current or prospective employees, customers, franchisees, vendors, landlords, shareholders or others. We assess contingencies to determine the degree of probability and range of possible loss for potential accrual in our financial statements, and an estimated loss contingency is accrued if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because lawsuits are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable resolutions could occur, assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. We regularly review contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. However, the amount of ultimate loss may differ from these estimates. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management’s attention away from operations and hurt our performance. Further, adverse publicity resulting from claims may harm our business or our franchisees. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 