ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all businesses operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Risks Associated With Our Business We may need to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations. If our financing efforts are not successful, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We may require additional financing in order to complete our stated plan of operations for the next twelve months. There can be no assurance, however, that such financing will be available or, if it is available, that we will be able to structure such financing on terms acceptable to us or that it will be sufficient to fund our cash requirements until we can reach a level of profitable operations and positive cash flows. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we will be unable to continue as a going concern. The trading price of our shares of common stock and the tightening of the credit markets, disruption in the financial markets and global economic downturn experienced over the last several quarters could make it more difficult to obtain financing through the issuance of equity or debt securities. Any additional equity financing will be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants and require significant collateral. Further, if we issue additional equity or debt securities, stockholders may experience additional dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our shares of common stock. 6 While we believe that we will be successful in generating additional cash through outside financing, the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. If we are not able to secure additional funding, we may be required to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures or significantly curtail our operations. Note 1 to our financial statements included in Item 8 of this report has additional disclosures related to our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. Our operations resulted in a net loss of approximately $1,322,000 and $749,000 for the years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses related to being a public company. As a result of these expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve and maintain future profitability. We may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this report, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown factors. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have a current credit facility. We have experienced a significant decline in working capital over the last fiscal year. We do not currently have any credit facilities in place, or any arrangement that we can draw upon for additional capital. Our current cash on hand and cash generated from operations may not be sufficient to sustain our business for the next twelve months, we can make no assurance that we will not need additional financing during the next twelve months or beyond. Actual sales, expenses, market conditions or other factors which could have a material affect upon us could require us to obtain additional financing. If such financing is not available, or if available, is not available on reasonable terms, it could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. Because most of our revenues are from a single type of technology, our product concentration may make us especially vulnerable to market demand and competition from other technologies, which could reduce our sales and revenues and cause us to be unable to continue our business. We currently derive substantially all of our product revenues from licenses and sales of software products to customers incorporating our character recognition technology. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our products and services, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for document image processing, negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate could result in lower sales or gross margins and would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If economic or other factors negatively affect the small and medium-sized business sector, our customers may become unwilling or unable to purchase our products and services, which could cause our revenue to decline. Many of our existing and target customers are in the small and medium business sector. These businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our products and services. If small and medium businesses experience economic hardship, it could negatively affect the overall demand for our products and services, and could cause our revenue to decline. Competition in our market may result in pricing pressures, reduced margins or the inability of our products and services to achieve market acceptance. We compete against numerous other companies which address the character recognition market, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Other companies could choose to enter our marketplace. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins and the inability to achieve market acceptance for our products. Moreover, from time to time, our competitors or we may announce new products or technologies that have the potential to replace our existing product offerings. There can be no assurance that the announcement of new product offerings will not cause potential customers to defer purchases of our existing products, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 7 We must continue extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. If our products fail to gain market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected by decreased sales. Our ability to compete effectively with our character recognition product line will depend upon our ability to meet changing market conditions and develop enhancements to our products on a timely basis in order to maintain our competitive advantage. Rapidly advancing technology and rapidly changing user preferences characterize the markets for products incorporating character recognition technology. Our continued growth will ultimately depend upon our ability to develop additional technologies and attract strategic alliances for related or separate product lines. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements and additional technologies, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, will be of acceptable quality, or will achieve market acceptance. If our new products, including our recently developed Mobile Capture software solution, fail to gain market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected by the lower sales. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by decreased sales. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated greatly in the past and will likely continue to do so, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our common stock price. Our quarterly operating results have in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on factors including the timing of customer projects and purchase orders, new product announcements and releases by us and other companies, gain or loss of significant customers, price discounting of our products, the timing of expenditures, customer product delivery requirements, availability and cost of components or labor and economic conditions, generally, and in the information technology market, specifically. Any unfavorable change in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for a particular quarter or year, which may cause downward pressure on our common stock price. We expect quarterly and annual fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. Our historical order flow patterns, which we expect to continue, have caused forecasting difficulties for us. If we do not meet our forecasts or analysts' forecasts for us, the price of our common stock may decline. Historically, a significant portion of our sales have resulted from shipments during the last few weeks of the quarter from orders received in the last month of the applicable quarter. We do, however, base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, we expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. Any concentration of sales at the end of the quarter may limit our ability to plan or adjust operating expenses. Therefore, if anticipated shipments in any quarter do not occur or are delayed, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of sales, and our operating results for that quarter would be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. If our operating results for a quarter are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. 8 Revenue recognition accounting standards and interpretations may change, causing us to recognize lower revenues. In October 1997, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition ("SOP 97-2"). We adopted SOP 97-2, as amended by SOP No. 98-4, Deferral of the Effective Date of a Provision of SOP 97-2 ("SOP 98-4"), as of July 1, 1998. In December 1998, the AICPA issued SOP No. 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions ("SOP 98-9"). We adopted SOP 98-9 on January 1, 2000. These standards address software revenue recognition matters primarily from a conceptual level and do not include specific implementation guidance. In addition, in December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ("SAB 101"), which provides further guidance with regard to revenue recognition, presentation and disclosure. We adopted SAB 101 during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000. In December 2003, the SEC issued SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition ("SAB 104"), which superseded SAB 101. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) incorporated the forgoing revenue recognition standards into the FASB Accounting Standards Codification™ (“ASC”) within ASC Topic 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition (“ASC 985-605). We believe that we are currently in compliance with ASC 985-605. The accounting profession and the SEC continue to discuss certain provisions of ASC 985-605 with the objective of providing additional guidance on potential application of the standards and interpretations. These discussions could lead to unanticipated changes in revenue recognition standards and, as a result, in our current revenue accounting practices, which could cause us to recognize lower revenues and lead to a decrease in our stock price. If our products have product defects, it could damage our reputation, sales and profitability and result in other costs, any of which could adversely affect our operating results, which could cause our common stock price to go down. Our products are extremely complex and are constantly being modified and improved, and as such they may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. As a result, we have in the past and could in the future face loss or delay in recognition of revenues as a result of software errors or defects. In addition, our products are typically intended for use in applications that are critical to a customer's business. As a result, we believe that our customers and potential customers have a greater sensitivity to product defects than the market for software products in general. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, adverse litigation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success and our ability to compete are dependent, in part, upon protection of our proprietary technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our revenues and operating results would be materially adversely affected. We generally rely on trademark, trade secret, copyright and patent law to protect our intellectual property. We may also rely on creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable product maintenance as means of protecting our proprietary technologies. There can be no assurance, however, that such means will be successful in protecting our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. The source code for our proprietary software is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, or to develop similar technology independently. 9 We may have difficulty protecting our proprietary technology in countries other than the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our revenues and operating results would be materially adversely affected. We operate in a number of countries other than the United States. Effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the protection provided to our proprietary technology by the laws and courts of foreign nations against piracy and infringement will be substantially similar to the remedies available under the laws of the United States. Any of the foregoing considerations could result in a loss or diminution in value of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. We have in the past had companies claim that certain technologies incorporated in our products infringe their patent rights. Although we have resolved the past claims and there are currently no claims of infringement pending against us, there can be no assurance that we will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting that our products infringe, or may infringe, those parties' intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that licenses to disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us or divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from operations, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, we might be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. In the event of a successful claim against us and our failure to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We depend upon our key personnel. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel. We do not have employment contracts with or "key person" life insurance policies on, any of our employees, including Mr. John M. Thornton, our Chairman, and Mr. James B. DeBello, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Loss of services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We are also dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing developments required to refine our technologies and to introduce future applications. The high technology industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining additional qualified personnel in the future. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our key personnel, or if we failed to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, it could materially and adversely affect our customer relationships, competitive position and revenues. The liability of our officers and directors is limited pursuant to Delaware law. Pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, and as authorized under applicable Delaware Law, our directors and officers are not liable for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. 10 Risks Related to Our Stock A few of our stockholders have significant control over our voting stock which may make it difficult to complete some corporate transactions without their support and may prevent a change in control. As of November 30, 2009, John M. Thornton, who is our Chairman of the Board and his spouse, Director Sally B. Thornton, beneficially owned 2,869,959 shares of common stock including stock options or approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock. Our directors and executive officers as a whole, own approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock, or approximately 25% including outstanding options (vested and unvested) to acquire our common stock. John H. Harland Company ("John Harland") has 2,142,856 shares or approximately 13% of our outstanding common stock. John Harland also holds 321,428 warrants which may be exercised to acquire 321,428 shares of our common stock, thereby increasing the number of shares of common stock held by John Harland to 2,464,284 shares or approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock. Laurus Funds may acquire up to 1,060,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise of its warrant or approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock. The above-described significant stockholders may have considerable influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. In addition, this ownership could discourage the acquisition of our common stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, possibly depressing the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. Our common stock is currently listed on the Over-The-Counter ("OTC") Bulletin Board. If our common stock became ineligible to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, it would likely continue to be listed on the "pink sheets." Securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or the "pink sheets" are subject to certain securities regulations. These regulations may limit, in certain circumstances, certain trading activities in our common stock, which could reduce the volume of trading in our common stock or the market price of our common stock. The OTC market and the "pink sheets" also typically exhibit extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, individual companies whose securities have exhibited periods of volatility in their market price have had securities class action litigation instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. We may issue preferred stock, which could adversely affect the rights of common stock holders. The Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with any "interested stockholder" as defined by such statute. The statute may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control. Our common stock price has been volatile. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock for an amount equal to or greater than the price at which you acquire your shares of common stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Future announcements concerning us or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction of new products or changes in our product pricing policies or those of our competitors, claims of infringement of proprietary rights or other litigation, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or other factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for the common stocks of technology companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, the closing price of our common stock ranged from $0.05 to $1.01. 11 Applicable SEC rules governing the trading of "penny stocks" limit the trading and liquidity of our common stock which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. So long as our common stock continues to trade below $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" and is subject to SEC rules and regulations that impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares can be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure document explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations, and the practices required by them, have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 