ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties that should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company. There may be additional risks and uncertainties to those listed below that are not currently known to the Company or that management currently deems immaterial that may also impair the Company’s business operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed below could have a significant adverse affect on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry Adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting the Company’s products and services could negatively impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. In addition, as the Company develops new products and services, it will become subject to additional federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against the Company of civil, monetary or other penalties. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations could negatively affect the Company’s business activities or effectively eliminate some of the Company’s current loan products. In particular, consumer loans have come under increased regulatory scrutiny in the United States in recent years that has resulted in increasingly restrictive regulations and legislation that makes offering such loans in certain states less profitable or unattractive to the Company. Regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database and limit the number of such loans a borrower may have outstanding. Other regulations adversely impact the availability of the Company’s consumer loan products to active duty military personnel and their immediate families. Legislative or regulatory activities may also limit the amount of interest and fees to levels that do not permit the offering of consumer loans to be feasible or may limit the number of consumer loans that customers may receive or have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of certain short-term consumer loan products to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. In particular, both the executive and legislative branches of the U.S. federal government continue to receive significant pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups, and those governmental branches have recently exhibited an increased interest in debating legislation that could further regulate short-term consumer loan products. The U.S. Congress has debated, and may in the future adopt, proposed legislation that could, among other things, place a cap on the effective annual percentage rate on consumer loan transactions (which could encompass both the Company’s consumer loan and pawn businesses), place a cap on the dollar amount of fees that may be charged for consumer loans, ban loan renewals (where the customer agrees to pay the current finance charge on a loan for the right to make payment of the outstanding principal balance of such loan at a later date plus an additional finance charge) or limit the number of loan renewals and the rates to be charged for loan renewals, require the Company to offer an extended payment plan, allow for only minimal origination fees for advances, limit renewals and the rates to be charged for renewals, require short-term lenders to be bonded or require lenders to report consumer loan activity to databases designed to monitor or restrict consumer borrowing activity. The Company follows legislative and regulatory developments in each state where it does business. In addition, since 2006, legislative changes that have been enacted in Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, Montana, New Hampshire, Ohio, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin impact the consumer loan products the Company has historically offered in those states. Due to these legislative changes, the Company has ceased offering consumer loans in the States of Arizona, Montana and New Hampshire and discontinued the Credit Services Organization program in Maryland. In addition, these changes have also altered the parameters upon which the Company offers consumer loans to consumers in the other states mentioned above; therefore, reducing the profitability and the volume of the consumer loans the Company offers to customers in these other states. See “Item 1. Business—Recent Developments—Recent Regulatory Developments” for additional information regarding recent regulatory developments. The Company cannot currently assess the likelihood of any future unfavorable federal or state legislation or regulations being proposed or enacted that could affect the Company’s products and services, including short-term consumer loans and pawn loans. The Company is closely monitoring proposed legislation being discussed in states such as Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and Ohio, among others. There can be no assurance that additional legislative or regulatory initiatives will not be enacted that could severely restrict, prohibit or eliminate the Company’s ability to offer a short-term loan product. Any federal or state legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts, by imposing an annual percentage rate limit on consumer loan transactions or otherwise prohibits, or places restrictions on, consumer loans and similar services, if enacted, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, the Company’s business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulation and permit licensing. Local jurisdictions’ efforts to restrict pawnshop operations and short-term lending through the use of local zoning and permitting laws have been increasing. Actions 21 Table of Contents taken in the future by local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on consumer lending or short-term lenders could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 has announced the commencement of regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over non-bank providers of consumer credit such as the Company. The U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), and Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). The CFPB became operational in certain respects in July 2011, although it did not have the ability to oversee and exercise its full authority over non-depository institutions and implement related rules until a permanent director was installed. On January 4, 2012, President Obama appointed a Director of the CFPB in a recess appointment bypassing Senate confirmation. Although there remain doubts about the legality of this appointment and the appointment may be subject to legal challenge, the CFPB has announced that it will now exercise full regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over certain non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services such as the Company. The CFPB’s powers include explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of such providers of consumer financial products and services, including providers of consumer loans such as the Company; the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful; and the authority to impose recordkeeping obligations. The Company does not currently know the nature and extent of the rules the CFPB will consider for consumer loan products and services such as those offered by the Company or the timeframe in which the CFPB may consider such rules. The CFPB has indicated that it intends to systematically gather data to obtain a complete picture of the consumer loan market and its impact on consumers, and the CFPB has also released its Short-Term, Small-Dollar Lending Procedures, which is the field guide CFPB examiners will use when examining small-dollar lenders such as the Company. The CFPB’s examination authority permits CFPB examiners to inspect the Company’s books and records and ask questions about its business, and the examination procedures include specific modules for examining marketing activities, loan application and origination activities, payment processing activities and sustained use by consumers, collections, defaults and consumer reporting and third-party relationships. Although the CFPB does not have the authority to regulate fees or interest rates, it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt rules making short-term consumer lending products and services materially less profitable or even impractical to offer, which could force the Company to modify or terminate certain of its product offerings in the United States. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to other consumer loan products and services. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition or could make the continuance of all or part of the Company’s current U.S. business impractical or unprofitable. In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act’s grant of regulatory and supervisory powers to the CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB’s own rules). In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 22 Table of Contents per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB. If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe that the Company has violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its business. Media reports and public perception of consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company’s consumer loan business. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. Such consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the Annual Percentage Rate, to a consumer for this type of loan, which is compared unfavorably to the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with top-tier credit histories. The fees charged by the Company and others in the industry attract media publicity about the industry and can be perceived as controversial by those who do not focus on the credit risk and high transaction costs of serving the Company’s customer segment. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for the consumer loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. There are risks associated with the Company’s previously-announced proposed initial public offering of Enova International, Inc. On September 15, 2011, the Company announced that its board of directors had unanimously approved a plan to divest a majority ownership of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Enova International, Inc. (“Enova”), that comprises its e-commerce segment via an initial public offering (an “IPO”), and Enova has filed a registration statement on Form S-1 to register shares of common stock to be sold by Enova and the Company. The completion of the IPO is subject to numerous conditions, including market conditions. The Company may not complete the IPO, in which event it will have incurred significant expenses that it will be unable to recover, and for which it will not receive any benefit. If the IPO is completed, Enova would be a new publicly-traded company. The Company is unable to predict what the market price of its common stock would be after the IPO. The Company cannot make any assurances that the IPO, if completed, will produce any increase for its shareholders in the market value of their holdings in the Company. In addition, the market price of the Company’s common stock could be volatile for several months after the IPO and may continue to be more volatile than the Company’s common stock would have been if the IPO had not occurred. Significant changes in, or a deterioration of, the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could affect the Company’s operations in these countries. Significant changes in, or a deterioration of, the political, regulatory or economic environment of Mexico, Australia, Canada or the United Kingdom could restrict the ability of the Company to sustain or expand its operations in these countries, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue its operations in these countries. In Mexico, restrictions and regulations affecting pawn services, including licensing restrictions, disclosure requirements and limits on interest rates have been and likely will in the future be proposed from time to time. The Company also maintains business relationships with significant third party service providers. The failure of key service providers to fulfill their obligations as a result of regulatory, political, economic or other factors could disrupt the Company’s operations in Mexico. The Company’s business in Mexico is also subject to other potential risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company’s control, such as violence, social unrest, enforcement of property rights and public safety and security, which could restrict or eliminate the Company’s ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic or demand. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the Company offers consumer loans, either directly or through an independent third-party lender, over the Internet to customers in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. These countries have recently exhibited an increasing interest in considering legislation that could regulate or restrict the short-term consumer loan products the Company offers. For example, in the United Kingdom the Company must follow the Irresponsible Lending Guidance of the Office of Fair Trading (the “OFT”), and in October 2011, the OFT issued new debt collection guidance, updating prior guidance, that could restrict the number of times and the amounts that short-term consumer lenders such as the Company are allowed to debit a customer’s account, which includes debits to both bank accounts and debit cards. The OFT is undertaking a supplemental consultation on the guidance it issued that may result in an amendment to the guidance, and the OFT has indicated that it will not enforce the guidance during the supplementary consultation period. While the Company is in the early stages of interpreting the guidance and assessing its impact on its business and current practices, compliance with the new guidance, as it is written or as it may be amended, could result in significant changes to the Company’s consumer loan operations with respect to loans made in the United Kingdom and collection practices and could result in lower collections on loans made by the Company and a decrease in the number of customers that it is able to approve. In addition, in February 2012, the OFT announced that it had launched an extensive review of the payday lending sector in the United Kingdom to assess the sector’s compliance with the Consumer Credit Act of 2006, the OFT’s Irresponsible Lending Guidelines and other relevant guidance and legal obligations. In connection with this review, the Company has received formal notice from the OFT indicating that the Company is one of 50 companies that will be subject to on-site inspections by the OFT. However, the OFT has not yet established when it plans to visit the Company’s premises to assess the Company’s United Kingdom business and compliance activities. The OFT has announced that these inspections could be used to assess a licensee’s fitness to hold a consumer credit license and could result in formal enforcement action where appropriate. If the Company is required to make changes to its consumer loan operations in the United Kingdom due to the new OFT guidance or if any action is taken by the OFT following its inspection of the Company and others in the industry, such action could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s foreign business, prospects, results of operations and financial conditions and could impair the Company’s ability to continue its current operations in the United Kingdom. The Company’s earnings and financial position are subject to changes in the value of gold. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect the Company’s earnings. A significant portion of the Company’s pawn loans are secured by gold jewelry. The Company’s pawn service charges, sales proceeds and ability to dispose of excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin depend on the value of gold. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreases in merchandise sales margins, in inventory valuations, in the value of collateral securing outstanding pawn loans, and in the balance of pawn loans secured by gold jewelry. Any such change in the value of gold could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s consumer loan revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third-party lenders to make loans to customers and with other third parties to provide services to facilitate lending and loan underwriting in both the storefront and online lending consumer loan channels. The loss of the relationship with any of these third parties, and an inability to replace them or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services or to have the ability to provide their products and services, could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company’s consumer loan business. The Company offers other services provided by various third-party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its product or service, does not maintain its quality and consistency or fails to have the ability to provide their products and services, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such third parties to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to 24 Table of Contents particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers’ financial conditions. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the consumer loan operations of the Company and the products it offers. If the Company’s allowance for losses and liability for estimated losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans are not adequate to absorb losses, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data— Note 5,” the Company utilizes a variety of underwriting criteria, monitors the performance of its consumer loan portfolios and maintains either an allowance or liability for estimated losses on consumer loans (including fees and interest) at a level estimated to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the receivables portfolio and expected losses from CSO guarantees. The allowance deducted from the carrying value of consumer loans was $63.1 million at December 31, 2011, and the liability for estimated losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans was $3.1 million at December 31, 2011. These reserves are estimates, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than the Company’s reserves, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise disposition operations. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, consumer loan companies, credit service organizations, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of consumer loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, internet retailers and internet auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. The Company’s growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified store management personnel, the ability to access capital, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses, the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state or jurisdiction in which the Company operates or seeks to operate, which are subject to change at any time, the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on the Company’s ability to attract new customers and the ability to adapt the Company’s infrastructure and systems to accommodate its growth. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Future acquisitions and/or the failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations could negatively impact the Company’s performance. The Company has historically grown through strategic acquisitions, and a key component of the Company’s future strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities in order to expand its product and service offerings and markets and grow its business in response to changing customer demands, regulatory environments, technologies and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, the Company may expand its offerings through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and the Company may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if the Company successfully completes an acquisition, it may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the business that it acquires, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for the Company. In addition, the Company may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute its shareholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which the Company has little or no prior experience or may expose the Company to additional material liabilities. In addition, any acquisition has the risk that the Company may not realize a return on the acquisition or the Company’s investment. Consequently, the Company may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s foreign operations subject the Company to foreign exchange risk. The Company is subject to the risk of unexpected changes in foreign currency exchange rates by virtue of its loans to residents of Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and its operations in Mexico. The Company’s results of operations and certain of its intercompany balances associated with the Company’s Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and Mexico loans are denominated in their respective currencies and are, as a result, exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and the Company may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company’s pawn loan or consumer loan portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as the merchandise sold in the Company’s pawnshops. An economic slowdown could result in a decreased number of consumer loans being made to customers due to higher unemployment or an increase in loan defaults in the Company’s consumer loan products. During an economic slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would likely reduce consumer loan balances, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted consumer loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. While the credit risk for much of the Company’s pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. Changes in the Company’s financial condition or a potential disruption in the capital markets could reduce available capital. In the past, the Company has accessed the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a disruption or deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the 26 Table of Contents Company’s industry by market participants. Disruptions and volatility in the capital markets may cause banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit facilities and require higher pricing upon renewal of existing credit facilities. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, and a potential disruption in the capital markets may adversely affect the Company’s efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to the Company. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of potential acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges and this, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to advance its strategic plans. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds is limited, third parties with whom the Company does business may incur increased costs or business disruption and this could adversely affect the Company’s business relationships with such third parties. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictions that may limit its ability to operate its business. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants, compliance with which is essential to continued credit availability. These restrictive covenants, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur or permit certain liens to exist; • make certain investments; • merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, another company; • make certain dispositions; • make certain payments; and • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Some of the Company’s debt agreements also require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The covenants and restrictions contained in the debt agreements could limit the Company’s ability to fund its business, make capital expenditures, and make acquisitions or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants could constitute an event of default under the debt agreements, entitling the lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability under the agreement, and/or increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under that agreement. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. Failure to satisfy the Company’s debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $537.3 million total debt outstanding, including the Company’s credit facilities, senior unsecured notes and 2009 Convertible Notes as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 11.” If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these debt obligations or if it is in breach of the covenants contained in the debt agreements it would default under the terms of the applicable agreement or indenture. Any such default could result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of its other debt agreements under applicable cross default provisions. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Company is subject to impairment risk. At December 31, 2011, the Company had goodwill totaling $562.7 million, consisting of $352.4 million related to the retail services segment and $210.3 million related to the e-commerce segment, on its consolidated balance sheets, 27 Table of Contents all of which represent assets capitalized in connection with the Company’s acquisitions and business combinations. In addition, at December 31, 2011, the Company had intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $34.8 million, consisting of $34.6 million related to its retail services segment and $0.2 million related to the e-commerce segment. Accounting for intangible assets requires significant management estimates and judgment. Events may occur in the future and the Company may not realize the value of these intangible assets. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of the intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an intangible asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and could also lead to the Company’s inability to comply with certain covenants in the Company’s financing documents, which could cause a default under those agreements. The Company may be unable to protect its proprietary technology or keep up with that of its competitors. The success of the Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company may be unable to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, competitors could, without violating the Company’s proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than its technology. The Company’s failure to protect its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as its competitors’ could put the Company at a disadvantage to its competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Security breaches, cyber attacks or fraudulent activity could result in damage to the Company’s operations or lead to reputational damage. A security breach or cyber attack of the Company’s computer systems could interrupt or damage the Company’s operations or harm its reputation. Despite the implementation of security measures, the Company’s systems may still be vulnerable to data theft, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. If the Company were to experience a security breach or cyber attack, it could be required to incur substantial costs and liabilities, including, among other things, the following: • expenses to rectify the consequences of the security breach or cyber attack, • liability for stolen assets or information, • costs of repairing damage to the Company’s systems, • lost revenue and income resulting from any system downtime caused by such breach or attack, • increased costs of cyber security protection, • costs of incentives the Company may be required to offer to its customers or business partners to retain their business, and • damage to the Company’s reputation causing customers and investors to lose confidence in the Company. In addition, any compromise of security or a cyber attack could deter consumers from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company’s systems. Further, if confidential customer information or information belonging to the Company’s business partners is misappropriated from the Company’s computer systems, the Company could be sued by those who assert the Company did not take adequate precautions to safeguard its systems and confidential data belonging to the Company’ customers or business partners, which could subject the Company to liability and result in significant legal fees and expenses of defending these claims. As a result, any compromise of security of the Company’s computer systems or cyber attack could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been and is currently subject to lawsuits (including purported class actions) that could cause it to incur substantial expenditures and generate adverse publicity. The Company is also likely to be subject to further litigation in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation could cause the Company to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate the Company’s operations in particular states. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of the Company’s management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to regulatory proceedings, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those regulatory proceedings, even if it is not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements the Company uses illegal or unenforceable. The Company includes arbitration provisions in its consumer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow the Company to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. The Company’s arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. The Company takes the position that the Federal Arbitration Act requires the enforcement of the Company’s arbitration agreements and their class action waivers in accordance with their terms. The Company believes that the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in the AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion case, holding that consumer arbitration agreements meeting certain specifications are enforceable, will now reduce the possibility that lower courts will rule that the Company’s arbitration agreements with class action waivers are unenforceable. The AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion decision was rendered on April 27, 2011. Notwithstanding two recent rulings from a Pennsylvania federal district court and another ruling from a Texas federal district court enforcing the Company’s arbitration agreements with class action waivers in reliance on the AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion decision, further challenges to the enforceability of arbitration agreements with class action waivers will likely continue to be brought in an effort to limit the precedential effect of the AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion decision. If those challenges are successful, the Company’s arbitration agreements could be unenforceable. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts and has adopted such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loan agreements and also certain consumer loan agreements to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to the U.S. Congress, and it authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. Any such rule would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements). Any judicial decisions, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair the Company’s ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase the Company’s exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions. Such litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company’s facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends highly upon its employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as internet support, call centers, and processing and making consumer loans. Additionally, the Company’s storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company’s point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company’s internet operations, storefront point-of-sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process internet consumer loans, perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. Any such interruption could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely impact its future revenue and financial condition and increase its costs and expenses. The Company’s services, operations and pawnshops from which it provides its products and services are vulnerable to damage or interruption from tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors and similar events. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and the Company’s insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate the Company for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, civil unrest or violence could cause disruptions to the Company’s business or the economy as a whole. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that the Company obtains vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and management’s decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in the Company’s retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase the Company’s expenses, which could harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s reported results could be adversely affected by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements. The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), and GAAP and its interpretations are subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require the Company to change its financial reporting (including the proposed lease accounting changes and the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in the United States), the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the Company could be required to restate historical financial reporting. Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. 30 Table of Contents Other risk factors are discussed under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • variations in results of operations; • legislative or regulatory changes, and in particular, legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Company’s consumer loan operations; • fluctuations in commodity prices; • general trends in the industry; • market conditions; and • analysts’ estimates and other events in the consumer finance industry. The market price for the Company’s common stock has varied between a high of $62.33 on September 20, 2011 and a low of $36.65 on January 4, 2011 in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011. The Company’s stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry,” variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results from management’s expectations or those of securities analysts or investors, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates and announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, the stock market in general may experience significant volatility that is unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance. Future issuances of additional shares of the Company’s common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company may, in the future, issue its previously authorized and unissued shares of common stock, including the potential issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the 2009 Convertible Notes (as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11”), resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of the Company’s shareholders. The Company is currently authorized to issue up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, and as of February 15, 2012 the Company had 29,356,829 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital-raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 