ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company’s business. • A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could adversely affect results. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as the availability of competing products, changes in customers’ financial conditions, or regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the cash advance products and services it offers due to the revised guidelines issued by the FDIC effective July 1, 2005 and supplemented in February 2006. The long-term impact these changes will have on the Company’s business is not yet certain. • Short-term consumer loan services have come under increased regulation and scrutiny. If changes in regulations affecting the Company’s cash advance business create increased restrictions, or have the effect of prohibiting loans in the states where the Company offers short- term consumer loans, such regulations could materially reduce the Company’s cash advance business and limit its expansion into new markets. The Company’s products and services are subject 15 Table of Contents to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations could have a negative effect on the Company’s business activities. In particular, short-term consumer loans have come under increased scrutiny and increasingly restrictive regulation in recent years. Some regulatory activity may limit the number of short-term loans that customers may receive or have outstanding, such as the limits prescribed by the FDIC in March 2005 and supplemented in February 2006 and regulations adopted by some states requiring that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database and limiting the number of such loans they may have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of this cash advance product to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. Adoption of such federal and state regulation or legislation could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of cash advance products at some or all of the Company’s locations. See the discussion of Regulation in “Item 1 — Business” for more information about regulations affecting the Company. • The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s cash advance revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third party lenders to make loans to its customers. The loss of the relationship with these lenders, and an inability to replace them with new lenders, or the failure of these lenders to maintain quality and consistency in their loan programs, could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company’s cash advance business. The Company makes other non-cash advance products and services provided by various third party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its product or service or to maintain its quality and consistency, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such a third party to fulfill its support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. • The Company’s growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy includes the acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit management personnel and the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. • Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise disposition operations. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, cash advance companies, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of cash advances or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned 16 Table of Contents merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. • A sustained deterioration of economic conditions could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. While the credit risk for most of the Company’s consumer lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could adversely affect the Company’s operations through deterioration in performance of its pawn loan or cash advance portfolios, or by reducing consumer demand for the purchase of pre-owned merchandise. • Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. • Changes in the capital markets or the Company’s financial condition could reduce available capital. The Company regularly accesses the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted should the Company experience deterioration of its cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects. • Media reports and public perception of short-term consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company’s cash advance business. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. Though the consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for our customers’ borrowing needs, they do typically characterize these short-term consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for these loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for the cash advance products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. • Other risk factors are discussed under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. • Other risks that are indicated in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may apply as well. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 