ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business and future results may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties that should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company. There may be additional risks and uncertainties to those listed below that are not currently known to the Company or that management currently deems immaterial that may also impair the Company’s business operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed below could have a significant adverse affect on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry Adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting the Company’s short-term consumer loan services could negatively impact the Company’s operations. The Company’s products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. In addition, as the Company develops new products and services, it will become subject to additional federal, state, local and foreign laws, ordinances and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against the Company of civil, monetary or other penalties. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations could negatively affect the Company’s business activities or effectively eliminate some of the Company’s current loan products. In particular, consumer loans have come under increased regulatory scrutiny in the United States in recent years that has resulted in increasingly restrictive regulations and legislation that makes offering such loans less profitable or unattractive to the Company. Regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database and limit the number of such loans a borrower may have outstanding. Other regulations adversely impact the availability of the Company’s consumer loan products to active duty military personnel. Legislative or regulatory activities may also limit the amount of interest and fees to levels that do not permit the offering of consumer loans to be feasible or may limit the number of consumer loans that customers may receive or have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of certain short-term products to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. In particular, both the executive and legislative branches of the federal government have recently exhibited an increased interest in debating legislation that could further regulate short-term consumer loan products. The U.S. Congress has debated, and may in the future debate, proposed legislation that could, among other things, place a cap on the effective annual percentage rate on consumer loan transactions (which could encompass both the Company’s consumer loan and pawn businesses), place a cap on the dollar amount of fees that may be charged for consumer loans, ban rollovers (payment of a fee to extend the term of a consumer loan), require the Company to offer an extended payment plan, allow for minimal origination fees for advances, limit refinancings and the rates to be charged for refinancings and require short-term lenders to be bonded. In addition, the United States Congress recently passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. This legislation authorizes the creation of a consumer financial protection bureau with broad regulatory powers over consumer credit products such as those offered by the Company. The Company cannot currently predict whether the Bureau will impose additional regulations that could affect the credit products offered by the Company. However, if the Bureau were to promulgate regulations that adversely impact the credit products offered by the Company, such regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company follows legislative and regulatory developments in each state where it does business. In addition, recent legislative changes that have been enacted in Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, Maryland, Montana and Wisconsin impact the consumer loan products the Company has historically offered in 17 Table of Contents those states. Due to these legislative changes, the Company has ceased offering consumer loans in the States of Arizona and Montana and the Credit Services Organization program in Maryland. In addition, these changes have also altered the parameters upon which the Company offers consumer loans to consumers in the other states mentioned above; therefore, reducing the profitability and the volume of the consumer loans the Company offers to customers in these other states. See “Item 1. Business—Recent Developments—Recent Regulatory Developments” for additional information regarding recent developments in these states. The Company cannot currently assess the likelihood of any future unfavorable federal or state legislation or regulations being proposed or enacted. The Company is closely monitoring proposed legislation being discussed in states such as Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio and Texas, among others. There can be no assurance that additional legislative or regulatory initiatives will not be enacted that could severely restrict, prohibit or eliminate the Company’s ability to offer a short-term loan product. Any federal or state legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts, by imposing an annual percentage rate limit on consumer loan transactions or otherwise prohibits, or places restrictions on, consumer loans and similar services, if enacted, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, the Company’s business is subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulation and permit licensing. Local jurisdictions’ efforts to restrict pawnshop operations and short-term lending through the use of local zoning and permitting laws have been increasing. Actions taken in the future by local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on consumer locations or short-term lenders could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. Media reports and public perception of consumer loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company’s consumer loan business. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is alleged to be higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for the Company’s customers’ borrowing needs or the comparatively higher cost to the customer when alternatives are not available, instead they characterize these short-term consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for these loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for the consumer loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans is accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company’s consumer loan revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of unaffiliated third-party lenders to make loans to customers and with other third parties to provide services to facilitate lending and loan underwriting in both the storefront and online lending consumer loan channels. The loss of the relationship with any of these third parties, and an inability to replace them or the failure of these third parties to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services or to have the ability to provide their products and services, could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company’s consumer loan business. The Company makes other non-consumer loan products and services provided by various third-party vendors available to its customers. If a third-party provider fails to provide its product or service, does not maintain its quality and consistency or fails to have the ability to provide their products and services, the Company could lose customers and related revenue from those products or services. The Company also uses third parties to support and maintain certain of its communication systems and computerized point-of-sale and information systems. The failure of such third parties to fulfill their support and maintenance obligations could disrupt the Company’s operations. 18 Table of Contents The Company’s operations in Mexico, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Canada are subject to political or regulatory changes or significant changes in the economic environment and other concerns. Significant regulatory or political changes in Mexico or changes in Mexico’s economic environment could restrict the ability of the Company to sustain or expand its pawn operations in Mexico, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations in Mexico. In Mexico, restrictions and regulations affecting pawn services, including licensing restrictions, disclosure requirements and limits on interest rates could be proposed from time to time. The Company also maintains business relationships with significant third party service providers of labor and technology services. The failure of these or other key service providers to fulfill their obligations as a result of regulatory, political, economic or other factors could disrupt the Company’s operations in Mexico. Mexico is also subject to other potential risks and uncertainties that are beyond the Company’s control, such as violence, social unrest, enforcement of property rights and public safety and security, that could restrict or eliminate the Company’s ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic or demand. In addition, the Company offers consumer loans, either directly or through an independent third-party lender, over the internet to customers in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. If political, regulatory or economic conditions deteriorate in any of these countries, the Company’s ability to continue making consumer loans in such countries could be limited and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s foreign operations. Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is currently subject to lawsuits that could cause it to incur substantial expenditures and generate adverse publicity. The Company is also likely to be subject to further litigation in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation could cause the Company to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate the Company’s operations in particular states. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of the Company’s management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to regulatory proceedings, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those regulatory proceedings, even if it is not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. A decreased demand for the Company’s products and specialty financial services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. Although the Company’s products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers’ financial conditions. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers’ demand for, or access to, its products, the Company’s revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company’s business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the consumer loan operations of the Company and the products it offers. 19 Table of Contents The failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses into the Company’s operations could negatively impact the Company’s performance. The Company made significant acquisitions in 2010 involving a 39-store chain of pawn lending locations that operate in Washington and Arizona under the names “Maxit” and “Pawn X-Change” and in 2008 involving a new product line and business model as well as a significant entry into a foreign market (Mexico). The Company has historically grown through strategic acquisitions and a key component of the Company’s future strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities. The success of recent and future acquisitions is, and will be, dependent upon the Company effectively integrating the management, operations and technology of acquired businesses into the Company’s existing management, operations and technology platforms. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company’s organization could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any acquisition has the risk that the Company may not realize a return on the acquisition or the Company’s investment. If the Company’s allowance for losses and accruals for losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans are not adequate to absorb losses, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data— Note 5,” the Company utilizes a variety of underwriting criteria, monitors the performance of its consumer loan portfolios and maintains either an allowance or accrual for losses on consumer loans (including fees and interest) at a level estimated to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the receivables portfolio and expected losses from CSO guarantees. The allowance deducted from the carrying value of consumer loans was $38.9 million at December 31, 2010, and the accrual for losses on third-party lender-owned consumer loans was $2.8 million at December 31, 2010. These reserves are estimates, and if actual loan losses are materially greater than the Company’s reserves, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce demand for the Company’s products and services and result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company’s pawn loan or consumer loan portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as the merchandise sold in the Company’s pawnshops. An economic slowdown could result in a decreased number of consumer loans being made to customers due to higher unemployment or an increase in loan defaults in the Company’s consumer loan products. During an economic slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would likely reduce consumer loan balances, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted consumer loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. While the credit risk for much of the Company’s pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. The Company is subject to impairment risk. At December 31, 2010, the Company had goodwill totaling $543.3 million, consisting of $333.0 million related to the retail services segment and $210.3 million related to the e-commerce segment, on its consolidated balance sheets, all of which represent assets capitalized in connection with the Company’s acquisitions and business combinations. In addition, at December 31, 2010, the Company had intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $31.2 million, consisting of $30.1 million related to its retail services segment and $1.1 million related to the e-commerce segment. Accounting for intangible assets requires significant management estimates and judgment. Events may occur in the future and the Company may not realize the value of these intangible assets. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of the intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an intangible asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and could also lead to the Company’s inability to comply with certain covenants in the Company’s financing documents, which could cause a default under those agreements. 20 Table of Contents The Company may be unable to protect its proprietary technology or keep up with that of its competitors. The success of the Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights. The Company may be unable to deter misappropriation of its proprietary information, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, competitors could, without violating the Company’s proprietary rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than its technology. The Company’s failure to protect its software and other proprietary intellectual property rights or to develop technologies that are as good as its competitors’ could put the Company at a disadvantage to its competitors. Any such failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain financial covenants and other restrictions that may limit its ability to operate its business. Some of the Company’s debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants, compliance with which is essential to continued credit availability. These restrictive covenants, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur or permit certain liens to exist; • make certain investments; • merge or consolidate with, or convey, transfer, lease or dispose of all of its assets to, another company; • make certain dispositions; • make certain payments, including dividend payments; and • engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Some of the Company’s debt agreements also require the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The covenants and restrictions contained in the debt agreements could limit the Company’s ability to fund its business, make capital expenditures, and make acquisitions or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants would constitute an event of default under the debt agreements, entitling the lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability under the agreement, and/or increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under that agreement. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Company’s foreign operations subject the Company to foreign exchange risk. The Company is subject to the risk of unexpected changes in foreign currency exchange rates by virtue of its loans to residents of Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom and its operations in Mexico. The Company’s results of operations and certain of its intercompany balances associated with the Company’s Australia, Canada, United Kingdom and Mexico loans are denominated in their respective currencies and are, as a result, exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and the Company may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. The Company’s earnings and financial position are subject to changes in the value of gold. A significant or sudden decline in the price of gold could materially affect the Company’s earnings. A significant portion of the Company’s pawn loans are secured by gold jewelry. The Company’s pawn service charges, sales proceeds and ability to dispose of excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin depend on the value of gold. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreases in merchandise sales margins, in inventory valuations, in the value of collateral securing outstanding pawn loans, and in the balance of pawn loans secured by gold jewelry. Any such change in the value of gold could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Changes in the Company’s financial condition or a potential disruption in the capital markets could reduce available capital. In the past, the Company has accessed the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company’s ongoing financial success; however, the Company’s future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a disruption or deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company’s industry by market participants. Disruptions and volatility in the capital markets may cause banks and other credit providers to restrict availability of new credit facilities and require higher pricing upon renewal of existing credit facilities. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, and a potential disruption in the capital markets may adversely affect the Company’s efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to the Company. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges and this, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to advance its strategic plans. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds is limited, third parties with whom the Company does business may incur increased costs or business disruption and this could adversely affect the Company’s business relationships with such third parties. Failure to satisfy the Company’s debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $456.7 million total debt outstanding, including the Company’s credit facilities, senior unsecured notes and 2009 Convertible Notes as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10.” If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these debt obligations or if it is in breach of the covenants contained in the debt agreements it would default under the terms of the applicable agreement or indenture. Any such default could result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of its other debt agreements under applicable cross default provisions. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company’s ability to continue current operations. The Company’s reported results could be adversely affected by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements. The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), and GAAP and its interpretations are subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require the Company to change its financial reporting (including the proposed lease accounting changes and the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in the United States), the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the Company could be required to restate historical financial reporting. The Company may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that the Company obtains vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and management’s decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in the Company’s retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase the Company’s expenses, which could harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents The Company’s business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company’s facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company’s business, particularly its online lending business, depends highly upon its employees’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as internet support, call centers, and processing and making consumer loans. Additionally, the Company’s storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company’s point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company’s internet operations, storefront point-of-sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company’s ability to write and process internet consumer loans, perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. Any such interruption could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A security breach of the Company’s computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of significant security measures, these systems may still be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company’s systems, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise disposition operations. Its principal competitors are other pawnshops, consumer loan companies, credit service organizations, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company’s primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company’s traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company’s business could result in a decrease in the number of consumer loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, internet retailers and internet auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company’s retail operations. The Company’s growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow through the opening and acquisition of new operating units. The Company’s expansion strategy includes acquiring existing stores and opening new ones. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of attractive acquisition candidates, the availability of sites with acceptable restrictions and suitable terms, the Company’s ability to attract, train and retain qualified store management personnel, the ability to access capital, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses, the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state or jurisdiction in which the Company operates or seeks to operate, which are subject to change at any time, the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on the Company’s ability to attract new customers and the ability to adapt the Company’s infrastructure and systems to accommodate its growth. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Adverse real estate market fluctuations could affect the Company’s profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations. Other risk factors are discussed under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The Company’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The market price of the Company’s common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • variations in results of operations; • legislative or regulatory changes, and in particular, legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Company’s consumer loan operations; • fluctuations in commodity prices; • general trends in the industry; • market conditions; and • analysts’ estimates and other events in the consumer finance industry. The market price for the Company’s common stock has varied between a high of $42.35 on April 23, 2010 and a low of $30.00 on August 20, 2010 in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2010. The Company’s stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Industry,” variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results from management’s expectations or those of securities analysts or investors, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates and announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of companies whose shares are traded. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance. Future issuances of additional shares of the Company’s common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company may, in the future, issue its previously authorized and unissued shares of common stock, including the potential issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the 2009 Convertible Notes (as more fully described under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10”), resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of the Company’s shareholders. The Company is currently authorized to issue up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, and as of February 16, 2011 the Company had 29,592,871 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital-raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company’s common stock. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 