Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, particularly lead, could increase our costs or cause delays in shipments, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly lead, the primary component cost of our battery products, or other product parts or components. Lead represented approximately 20% of our consolidated cost of sales for the fiscal year 2006. Lead market prices averaged $0.22 per pound in fiscal year 2002, $0.20 per pound in fiscal year 2003, $0.25 per pound in fiscal year 2004, $0.41 per pound in fiscal year 2005 and $0.45 per pound in fiscal year 2006. Lead traded as high as $0.657 per pound on February 2, 2006. The increase in lead market price has negatively impacted our financial results in recent periods. We historically have not been able to fully offset the effects of higher costs of raw materials through price increases to customers or by way of productivity improvements. A significant increase in the price of one or more raw materials, parts or components could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, we have recently instituted a lead hedging policy to mitigate our exposure to volatility in the price of lead. To the extent lead market prices decline in the future, we may be obligated to purchase a portion of our lead requirements at higher prices than are then available in the market. Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate supply and delivery of raw materials, including lead, and other product parts or components from our suppliers or from internal manufacturing capacity. Although we work closely with both our internal and external suppliers (and, as to the continuing availability of lead, our industry associations) to avoid encountering unavailability or shortages, we may encounter them in the future. The cessation, reduction or interruption of supply of raw materials, product parts or components could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The loss of a key supplier or the inability to obtain certain key products or components could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products, which could negatively affect customer satisfaction, thereby reducing our revenues, or could increase our costs. Lack of successful integration of acquired businesses or difficulties in making acquisitions or forming strategic alliances could hinder our ability to implement our business strategies. In addition to our recent acquisitions of Celab, Datel and CPS during fiscal year 2005, we may continue to make acquisitions, and in the future, may make divestitures and form strategic alliances, which may not be completed or be beneficial to us. Acquisitions present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the acquired business into our company, including substantial management time and financial and other resources, and we may not manage acquisitions successfully. Our success in realizing the expected benefits from recent and any future acquisitions depends on a number of factors, including retaining or hiring local management personnel, successful integration of the operations, information technology (IT) systems, customers, vendors and partner relationships of the acquired companies and our ability to devote capital and management attention to the newly acquired companies in light of other operational needs. In addition, the integration of the sales, accounting and research and development personnel across several geographic areas is important to the success of our strategy. Our efforts to implement our strategy could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition and general economic conditions in the countries where newly acquired companies operate. Any failure to effectively implement our strategy could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 Restrictive loan covenants may impact our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our $75,000 principal amount Line of Credit Facility (Credit Facility) and $50,000 Term Loan facility (Term Loan), as well as the indenture governing our 5.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2025 (Notes) contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. The Credit Facility, Term Loan and the indenture governing our Notes restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: o incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; o pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; o purchase or redeem stock; o issue stock of our subsidiaries; o make investments and extend credit; o engage in transactions with affiliates; o transfer and sell assets; o effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and o create liens on our assets to secure debt. Our liquidity derived from the Credit Facility is based on availability determined by a borrowing base. The availability is calculated monthly and is dependent upon our eligible receivables, inventory and certain equipment. There can be no assurance that we will maintain adequate levels of eligible assets to support our required liquidity. In addition, our Credit Facility and Term Loan require us to meet certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet the financial ratios. Rising prices of lead and other commodities and other circumstances have resulted in us recently obtaining an amendment to our financial covenants. Any breach of the covenants in our Credit Facility, Term Loan or the indenture governing our Notes could cause a default under our Credit Facility and other debt (including the Term Loan and the Notes), which would restrict our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility, thereby significantly impacting our liquidity. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our Credit Facility or Term Loan, the lenders under our Credit Facility or Term Loan could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under those facilities. We may face additional impairment charges if economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions substantially change. Assessment of the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets is an integral part of our normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of long-lived assets is dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects our best estimates at a particular point in time, which may vary from testing date to testing date. The economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected product selling prices and materials costs, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on both the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time at which such impairments are recognized. Future changes in the economic environment and the economic outlook for the assets being evaluated could also result in additional impairment charges. Any significant impairments would adversely impact our financial results. 15 Adverse economic or market changes in certain market sectors in which we conduct business could impact our results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by conditions in the domestic and global economies or the markets in which we conduct business, such as telecommunications, UPS, cable television, switchgear and control, material handling and military. Our products are principally used in connection with the telecommunications and IT industries. Weakness in these markets, such as a decline in consumer and business expenditures for IT and telecommunications may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. Any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by decreasing revenues and gross profit margins. For example, there were significant declines in corporate telecommunications and IT capital expenditures in recent years, and this negatively affected our results of operations. We are subject to pricing pressure from our larger customers. We face significant pricing pressures in all of our business segments from our larger customers. Because of their purchasing size, our larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have an adverse impact on our financial results. We operate in extremely competitive industries and are subject to continual pricing pressure. We compete with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of electrical storage and power conversion products, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of our industries, consolidation and the financial difficulties being experienced by several of our competitors, we have faced continual and significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures may prevent us from fully recovering increased costs we might incur. We anticipate heightened competitive pricing pressure as Chinese and other foreign producers, who are able to employ labor at significantly lower costs than producers in the U.S. and Western Europe, expand their export capacity and increase their marketing presence in our major U.S. and European markets. Several of our competitors have stronger technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, as well as more significant name recognition and established positions in the market and longer-standing relationships with OEMs and other customers than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors own lead smelting facilities which, during periods of lead cost increases or price volatility, may provide a competitive pricing advantage and reduce their exposure to volatile raw material costs. Our ability to maintain and improve our competitive position has depended, and continues to depend, on our ability to control and reduce our costs in the face of these pressures. Difficulties or delays in product development would hinder our financial performance. Our financial performance and our ability to compete are largely dependent on our ability to renew our pipeline of new products and to bring these products to market, including introducing viable new products; successfully completing research and development projects or integrating or otherwise capitalizing upon purchased or licensed technology; obtaining adequate intellectual property protection; maintaining or improving product quality or reducing product costs through continued product engineering; and utilizing or gaining market acceptance of new products. To the extent our research and development initiatives are unsuccessful in one or more of these pursuits, the market does not accept our new or improved products or our sales force is unsuccessful in marketing such products, our financial results will be negatively impacted. In addition, industry standards, customer expectations, new technologies or other products may emerge that could render one or more of our products less desirable or obsolete. Our financial performance could also be affected by competitive products and technologies. 16 We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations. We have operations in Canada, China, England, Germany, Japan and Mexico, either directly or through joint ventures. For fiscal year 2006, sales outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 33% of our net sales. In our financial statements, we translate local currency financial results into United States dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. Our most significant foreign currency exposures are to the Canadian dollar, the British pound and the euro. During times of a strengthening United States dollar, our reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer United States dollars, in spite of our efforts to hedge against currency risk exposures. In addition, we may face restrictions on our ability to repatriate funds from our international operations. Foreign operations are subject to risks that can materially increase the cost of operating in foreign countries and thereby may reduce our overall profitability. These risks include, but are not limited to: o currency exchange rate fluctuations; o increases in foreign tax rates and foreign earnings potentially being subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; o general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate and/or sell our products, including inflation; o the difficulties associated with managing an organization spread throughout various countries; o required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and o limited protection of intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to risks associated with our operations in China. A substantial amount of our materials sourcing originates in China. Enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing Chinese law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction in China. The relative inexperience of China's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Furthermore, many of our products are manufactured in China and must be shipped into the U.S. and Europe. When they enter the U.S. or Europe, these products may be subject to import quotas, import duties and other restrictions. Any inability to import these products into the U.S. or Europe, and any tariffs we may be required to pay with respect to these products may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Additionally, if the Chinese government decides to significantly revalue the Yuan, such an action could adversely impact our business and financial results. Delays in the relocation of our Shanghai facility or the failure to complete that relocation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Chinese government has notified our joint venture that it is required to relocate our Shanghai facility, for which the Chinese government has paid the joint venture approximately $15.5 million to effect the relocation and the construction of a new facility with an additional $1.7 million payable by the Chinese government upon the transfer of the Shanghai facility to the Chinese government on or about January 2007. We anticipate commencing production in the new facility in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. Delays in or failure to complete the relocation and construction of the new facility may inhibit our ability to complete orders and deliver products to our customers, and a failure to complete the relocation would require us to move production of some products to other facilities, which would adversely impact our operations and hinder our growth. Also, this relocation will require us to build up higher levels of inventory to enable us to continue to satisfy customer demand during the transition period, which will require a higher investment in working capital and affect our financial position. 17 Our worldwide operations could be adversely impacted by political, economic and social changes, or acts of terrorism or war. We operate worldwide and for fiscal year 2006 sales outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 33% of our net sales. Changes in the laws or policies of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, as well as social and economic conditions, in the countries in which we operate (including the United States) could affect our business and our results of operations. In addition, economic factors (including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates) and competitive factors (such as price competition and business combinations or reorganizations of competitors) or a decline in industry sales or cancelled or delayed orders due to economic weakness or changes in economic conditions, either in the United States or other countries in which we conduct business, could negatively affect our results of operations. Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to our operations, our suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are reliant on third parties whose operations are outside our control. We rely on arrangements with third-party shippers and carriers such as independent shipping companies for timely delivery of our products to our customers. As a result, we may be subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters and rapidly increasing fuel costs. If the services of any of these third parties become unsatisfactory, we may experience delays in meeting our customers' product demands and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and could cause us to lose customers. We also utilize third party distributors and manufacturers' representatives to sell, install and service certain of our products. While we are selective in whom we choose to represent us, it is difficult for us to ensure that our distributors and manufacturers' representatives consistently act in accordance with the standards we set for them. To the extent any of our end-customers have negative experiences with any of our distributors or manufacturers' representatives, it could reflect poorly on us and damage our reputation, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. We also utilize contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of our Power Electronics products. In some instances we are contractually obligated to use a contract manufacturer for production of specific products for which we have supply agreements at contractual rates. To the extent our manufacturing partners have issues with product quality or timely delivery of products, it could impair our relationships with our customers. Additionally, certain of our manufacturing agreements may not provide us with sufficient flexibility to negotiate pricing or to secure for ourselves some of the inputs for our products, which could result in higher manufacturing costs. Any of these factors could impair our financial results by reducing future revenue or increasing costs. Maintaining our manufacturing operations requires significant capital expenditures, and our inability or failure to maintain our operations would have a material adverse impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. We had capital expenditures of approximately $8.8 million and $11.9 million in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect to spend approximately 2% to 3% of future revenues on capital expenditures in future periods excluding construction of any new manufacturing facilities. We may incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes and other events that impact our business. If we are unable or fail to adequately maintain our manufacturing capacity or quality control processes, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse impact on our market share and our ability to generate revenue. 18 Our productivity initiatives, including rationalizations, relocations or consolidations may not be sufficiently effective to improve our financial performance or generate desired cost savings. We have undertaken and may continue to undertake productivity initiatives, including, among others, reorganizations, including the shut down or sale of portions of our business, and facility rationalizations to improve performance or generate cost savings. In addition, we may from time to time relocate or consolidate one or more of our operations. We may not realize any planned performance improvements or cost savings from such activities and delays or other interruptions in production or delivery of products may occur as the result of any rationalization, relocation or consolidation. A rationalization, relocation or consolidation could also cause asset impairments and/or trigger environmental remediation obligations. Further, these initiatives may not be completed or be beneficial to us. Firmwide, we are placing renewed emphasis on improving the quality of the products we manufacture and on more timely delivery of our products. In Motive Power in particular, we are working to improve our product portfolio, our manufacturing processes and our sales channels including our relationships with manufacturers' representatives and truck dealers. In Power Electronics, we are working to improve our product fulfillment process and to more tightly integrate our various operations to achieve desired revenue and expense synergies. Additionally, we continue to work to optimize our manufacturing portfolio by transitioning capacity to lower-cost regions and by selectively using contract manufacturers for certain of our Power Electronics products. To the extent management is unsuccessful at achieving the goals of any or all of these initiatives, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. Our new management team may not be able to successfully grow and manage all businesses. We believe that due to the challenges of growing our company, the quality of our executive officers and their ability to work effectively together as a management team will be key to our success. We recently hired a new President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey A. Graves, a new Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, James D. Dee, a new Vice President and General Manager of our Power Electronics division, William E. Bachrach, a new Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Ian J. Harvie, and a new Vice President of Human Resources, Debora M. Castle. The Company is currently undertaking a search for a new Vice President and General Manager of the Motive Power and Standby Power divisions. This new management team may not be effective in attaining our business goals and may not fulfill our expectations regarding our operations. Costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and liabilities that we may incur from fines and penalties, in the United States and internationally, could adversely impact our financial results and condition. Our facilities are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as participation in voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. We are also subject to potentially significant fines and penalties for non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate since the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the nature of the problem, the complexity of the issues, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and/or the government or third parties and, as applicable, other PRPs at multiparty sites, the number and financial viability of other PRPs and risks associated with litigation. These costs and liabilities could adversely impact our financial results and condition. In response to the European Union's "Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment," we established a schedule for compliance for our Power Electronics division . We will continue to strive for elimination of, and seek to have our component part suppliers eliminate, prohibited hazardous substances consistent with legislative requirements. We will continue to actively monitor decisions around environmental legislation and align our compliance with those decisions and the needs of our customers. These efforts may not be successful or completed on a timely basis, the failure of either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Our results may be adversely impacted by customers that become insolvent or bankrupt. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, including risk of insolvency and bankruptcy. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks or risks associated with potential bankruptcy of our customers. To the extent one or more of our customers becomes insolvent or seeks protection from its creditors, we may not be able to collect money due to us and we could incur write-downs to our accounts receivable balances. Additionally, the loss of such customers could negatively impact our financial performance in future periods. Pending or future litigation could impact our financial results and condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected by significant pending and future litigation or claims adverse to us. Types of potential litigation cases include: product liability, contract, employment-related, labor relations, personal injury or property damage, intellectual property, stockholder claims and claims arising from any injury or damage to persons, property or the environment from hazardous substances used, generated or disposed of in the conduct of our business (or that of a predecessor to the extent we are not indemnified for those liabilities). Our domestic business operations are dependent upon our ability to engage in successful collective bargaining with our unionized workforce. Currently, approximately 30% of our workforce is unionized, and we engage in collective bargaining negotiations with the unions that represent them. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups in future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. Strikes or labor disputes with our employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. A change in our product mix may cause our results of operations to differ substantially from the anticipated results in any particular period. Our overall profitability may not meet expectations if our products, customers or geographic mix are substantially different than anticipated. Our profit margins vary among products, customers and geographic markets. Consequently, if our mix of any of these is substantially different from what is anticipated in any particular period, our profitability could be lower than anticipated. Consolidation of existing enterprise resource planning systems could adversely affect our operations. We are evaluating consolidating our operations into fewer enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems in certain locations to integrate the separate systems of businesses that we recently acquired. An ERP system automates various business tasks including accounting, distribution and sales. Successful implementation of any consolidation will be critical to our cost reduction initiatives and to our ability to comply with the financial reporting and compliance obligations of a public company. Such processes will significantly affect many aspects of our business, including our accounting, operations, purchasing, sales, marketing, and administrative functions, and could disrupt our business, distract management and increase our costs. Our plans may require further modification and user training in order to properly handle all of the different accounting requirements of the countries in which we operate. If we were to experience difficulties or delays in any implementation efforts from this consolidation, our ability to provide products to our customers on a timely basis could be adversely affected, which would harm our operating results and relationships with our customers. Additionally, any integration difficulties or delays could adversely affect the processing and reporting of our accounting and financial results. We may not be able to correct any such difficulties or problems on a timely basis. 20 If customers fail to renew supply agreements on terms as favorable to us as existing agreements, our financial results could be adversely impacted. We supply products to certain of our customers pursuant to time-limited supply agreements. These contracts may not be renewed or, if renewed, they may not be renewed on as favorable terms to us as existing agreements, which could adversely impact our financial results. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, which could adversely impact our competitive position and therefore our business operations and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 