Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks related to doing business in the People’s Republic of China Our business operations are conducted entirely in the PRC. Because China’s economy and its laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in the west and are continually changing, we will face risks including those summarized below. The PRC is a developing nation governed by a one-party government and may be more susceptible to political, economic, and social upheaval than other nations; any such upheaval could cause us to temporarily or permanently cease operations. China is a developing country governed by a one-party government that imposes restrictions on individual liberties that are significantly stricter than those typically found in the West. China is also a country with an extremely large population, significant levels of poverty, widening income gaps between rich and poor and between urban and rural residents, large minority ethnic and religious populations, and growing access to information about the different social, economic, and political systems to be found in other countries. China has also experienced extremely rapid economic growth over the last decade, and its legal and regulatory systems have changed rapidly to accommodate this growth. These conditions make China unique and may make it susceptible to major structural changes. Such changes could include a reversal of China’s movement to encourage private economic activity, labor disruptions or other organized protests, nationalization of private businesses, internal conflicts between the police or military and the citizenry, and international political or military conflict. If any of these events were to occur, it could shut down China’s economy and cause us to temporarily or permanently cease operations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by the PRC legal system, which is underdeveloped, unclear, inconsistent, and rapidly changing. As a result, our ability to operate in good standing under the law, the protection of our corporate rights, and the value of any investment in our common stock are subject to substantial risk. QKL China, our operating company, is incorporated under and is governed by the laws of the PRC; all of our operations are conducted in the PRC; and our suppliers and the agricultural producers on whom they depend are located in the PRC. The PRC government exercises substantial control over virtually every sector of the PRC economy, including the production, distribution and sale of our merchandise. In particular, we are subject to regulation by local and national branches of the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, and Health, as well as the General Administration of Quality Supervision, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, and other regulatory bodies. In order to operate under PRC law, we require valid licenses, certificates and permits, which must be renewed from time to time. If we were to fail to obtain the necessary renewals for any reason, including sudden or unexplained changes in local regulatory practice, we could be required to shut down all or part of our operations temporarily or permanently. 30 QKL-China is subject to PRC accounting laws, which require that an annual audit be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards. The PRC foreign-invested enterprise laws require that our subsidiary, Speedy Brilliant (Daqing), submit periodic fiscal reports and statements to financial and tax authorities at the risk of business license revocation and maintain its books of account in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. If PRC authorities were to determine that we were in violation of these requirements, we could lose our business license and be unable to continue operations temporarily or permanently. The legal and judicial systems in the PRC are still rudimentary. The laws governing our business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in the PRC lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the PRC judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that do exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country, perhaps especially as to the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with suppliers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC’s legal system is based on civil law, or written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that must be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of PRC laws may vary to reflect domestic political changes. As a result of these conditions, we could be unable to defend or enforce our rights and we could be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Anti-inflation measures could harm the economy generally and could harm our business, and they could thereby reduce the value of any investment you make in our common stock .. In recent years, the PRC government has instituted anti-inflationary measures to curb the risk of an overheated economy. These measures have included devaluations of the renminbi, restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for some international transactions. These austerity measures may not succeed in slowing down the economy's excessive expansion or control inflation, or they may slow the economy below a healthy growth rate and lead to economic stagnation or recession; in the worst-case scenario, the measures could slow the economy without curbing inflation, causing “stagflation.” The PRC government could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of price freezes or moratoriums on certain projects or transactions. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by limiting the income of our customers available to purchase our merchandise, by forcing us to lower our profit margins, and by limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plans or maintain our business. Governmental control of currency conversions could prevent us from paying dividends and could thereby reduce the value of any investment you make in our common stock. All of our revenue is earned in renminbi, and current and future restrictions on currency conversions may limit our ability to use revenue generated in renminbi to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises like us may buy, sell or remit foreign currencies only after providing valid commercial documents at a PRC banks specifically authorized to conduct foreign-exchange business. 31 In addition, conversion of renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign-exchange accounts for capital account items. There is no guarantee that PRC regulatory authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the convertibility of the renminbi. These restrictions could prevent us from distributing dividends and thereby reduce the value of our stock. Fluctuation in the exchange rate of the renminbi against the dollar could reduce the value of your investment. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into renminbi, appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the value in renminbi of our proceeds. Conversely, if we decide to convert our renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our PRC business would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar-denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar of approximately 15% from July 2005 through August 1, 2008. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We receive all of our revenues in renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where renminbi are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government could also restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain expenses as they come due. Our PRC stockholders are required to register with SAFE; their failure to do so could cause us to lose our ability to remit profits out of the PRC as dividends which could diminish the value of your investment. SAFE regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have recently undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burdens we face. The failure of our stockholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to these regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC-resident stockholders to liability under PRC law. SAFE issued a public notice (the "October Notice"), effective as of November 1, 2005, and implementation rules in May 2007, which require registration with SAFE by the PRC resident stockholders of any foreign holding company of a PRC entity. These regulations apply to our stockholders who are PRC residents such as Mr. Wang, our CEO. In the absence of such registration, the PRC entity (in our case both Speedy Brilliant (Daqing) and QKL-China) cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. In the event that our PRC-resident stockholders do not follow the procedures required under the October Notice and its implementation rules, we could lose the ability to remit profits outside of the PRC and would therefore be unable to pay dividends or make other distributions, and we could face liability for evasion of foreign-exchange regulations. This could affect our good standing under PRC regulations and our ability to operate in the PRC, and could therefore diminish the value of your investment. 32 Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. To the knowledge of management, neither the distribution nor the sale of our merchandise constitutes an activity that requires us to comply with PRC environmental laws. There is no guarantee that the PRC government will not amend the current PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to be held liable for violating existing environmental regulations or if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. Enforcement against us or our directors and officers may be difficult and you could be unable to collect amounts due to you in the event that we or any officer or director violates applicable law. Our operating company, QKL-China, is located in the PRC and substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. All of our current officers and directors are residents of the PRC, and substantially all of their assets are located in the PRC. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process on us or those persons in the United States, or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons. Even if civil judgments are obtained in U.S. courts, it may be difficult or impossible to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. A widespread health problem in the PRC could negatively affect our operations and thereby reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, such as bird flu, could have an adverse effect on our ability to receive and distribute merchandise, the ability of our employees and customers to reach our stores, and other aspects of our operations. Public-safety measures such as quarantines or closures of some stores could disrupt our operations. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business. Risks related to our business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations; our business could fail, and you could lose some or all of your investment. We have a limited operating history, having commenced operations in 1998 with the opening of a single supermarket. In 2003, we were operating five (5) stores, and in 2004 we were operating ten (10). In 2006 we opened our first department store and our nineteenth (19th) supermarket. We currently have 28 supermarkets, two department stores and one distribution center. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early-stage companies in evolving markets such as that of supermarkets in the PRC. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · raise sufficient capital to sustain and execute our expansion plan; · offer new products to attract and retain a larger customer base; · attract additional customers and increased spending per customer; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop customer loyalty; · respond to competitive market conditions; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; 33 · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel Because we are a relatively new company, we may not be experienced enough to address all the risks in our business or in our expansion plan including a planned doubling in size over the next two years. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business and ability to achieve our expansion plan may be materially and adversely affected. As a retail company, we generate profits by selling goods supplied to us by others. If we do not receive prompt delivery of the goods we order, in good condition, and at the prices we expect, our ability to generate profits could be harmed and the value of any investment in our common stock could be reduced. As a retail company our ability to keep our shelves stocked with a wide variety of merchandise is essential to our success, and depends on the prompt delivery of the goods we order, in good condition, and at the prices we expect. Disruptions to the supply chain could cause us to reduce the variety or overall amount of goods we sell; to seek alternative sources for affected supplies; to increase our prices, decrease our profit margins, or both. Any of these consequences could lead to our customers buying less, shopping elsewhere, and spreading negative word of mouth. If this occurred, our income, profitability, reputation and competitive position would all suffer. Supply chain disruptions could be triggered by many kinds of events. The most important of these are described below. · Problems with transportation infrastructure in and around northeastern China Delivery of our supplies depends on the smooth passage of commercial cargo through the railways, highways and waterways in and around northeastern China. Transportation delays are especially problematic for us because a large portion of the goods we sell (between 30% and 40% of sales in 2006, between 50% and 55% of sales in 2007 and 2008) is perishable fresh food, which may lose all or part of its value in a few hours or days. Spoilage of any significant portion of the market supply of a fresh food item would lead suppliers to raise prices for that item, forcing us to choose between raising the price we charge for the item, thereby risking loss of customers, and reducing our profit margin for the item, thereby hurting our results of operations. Any increase in shipping costs would also cause our suppliers to raise their fees. Transportation infrastructure in and around northeastern China may suffer more frequent breakdowns, and offer fewer alternative routes, than systems in many western countries. Transportation of people and cargo throughout China experienced significant delays in early 2008 due to severe winter storms. There is no guarantee that other storms, mechanical failure, system overloads or similar problems will not delay shipments of our supplies in the future and cause spoilage of perishables, or that transportation-rate increases will not increase the prices we must pay for our supplies. · Bad harvests and severe weather, which could harm the agricultural production on which we depend, prevent customers from reaching our stores, and disrupt our power supply Severe storms could also reduce supplies of fresh foods by destroying crops and livestock, and in extreme cases could reduce supplies of processed foods by reducing overall availability of the agricultural raw materials from which they are made, causing shortages of and price increases for the affected supplies. Snow, ice and wind could also damage local roads, preventing our customers and employees from reaching our stores, and damage power lines and generation plants. Extended or repeated power outages could cause us to rely on our backup electricity generators for power to light and heat our stores and run our refrigerators and freezers and food-heating equipment. Our backup generators could fail if they are taxed beyond their capacity to perform, causing spoilage of perishables and preventing one or more of our stores from functioning. Such eventualities would reduce our income for the duration of the storms and, to the extent that infrastructure is damaged and harvests are reduced, into the future. Poor yields of crops and livestock, whether due to bad weather, disease, errors in agricultural planning or other causes, could reduce the market supplies of fresh foods as well as processed foods that depend on agricultural products as raw materials. Such reductions could raise the cost of our supplies and cause the supply problems discussed above. Further, there is no guarantee that a continued rise in prices of pork or our other supplies will not cause serious interruptions to our supply chain and our operating results in the future. 34 · Quality control problems and operational difficulties among a small number of suppliers We rely on a small number of suppliers to provide merchandise that meets our needs, including providing sufficient amounts of merchandise and meeting our quality standards and government health and consumer-protection standards. A significant portion of our supplies (approximately 11% in 2006, 9% in 2007 and 14% in 2008) comes from our top 10 suppliers, which are primarily large wholesalers and meat processors. If one or more of these suppliers experiences quality control failures or is unable to secure its own supplies of merchandise, whether self-produced or purchased from others, the merchandise that it delivers to us could fail to meet our quality standards or arrive in insufficient amounts to meet our needs. We have attempted to mitigate these risks by entering into long-term contracts with our suppliers, which typically have a term of one year and provide for payment at market prices. However, if such risks do materialize, there is no guarantee we would succeed in securing replacement supplies meeting our standards from other suppliers quickly and at reasonable prices, or at all, and we could suffer the consequences of supply chain disruptions described. Under our supply contracts, our suppliers are responsible for damage that occurs during shipping, and under the PRC’s consumer protection laws, our suppliers must reimburse us for the cost of spoiled goods returned to us by customers for a refund. Nevertheless, significant spoilage could reduce the amount of fresh food we are able to offer, which could reduce our income. · Economic conditions in and around northeastern China Economic conditions in northeastern China in particular affect the price and availability of our supplies. Inflation in prices of agricultural products and in general is a significant concern in China. If inflation continues or worsens, we will have to choose between increasing the prices we charge our customers and reducing the profit margins on our sales. In either case, our competitive position our operating results could be harmed, and the value of any investment in our common stock could be reduced. In addition, the geographic concentration of our operations exposes us to the risks of the local economy. We operate in Heilongjiang Province in northeastern China, with stores clustered around the cities of Daqing and Harbin, and our near-term plans call for expansion only within the three provinces of northeast China and the northern region of Inner Mongolia. Our headquarters, warehouse and distribution facilities and all of our stores are located within a relatively limited geographic area. As a result, our business is more susceptible to regional conditions, including conditions affecting infrastructure, agriculture, inflation and employment, than our more geographically diversified competitors. Economic conditions that affect consumer spending could limit our sales and increase our costs, and thereby reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Inflation and adverse changes to employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, energy and fuel costs and tax rates can, in addition to causing the supply-chain disruptions described above, reduce consumer spending and change consumer purchasing habits. As of the date of this report we have not been significantly negatively impacted by the economic downturn in the PRC. The recession in the PRC to date has mainly impacted the export sector based in Southeastern China. Daqing, where we are located, is the oil capital of China, and has relatively unaffected so far. Should the recession worsen and spread to Northeastern China where we are based it may harm our sales. A general reduction in the level of consumer spending or a shift toward purchases of lower-margin items would reduce our sales revenues and profits. 35 Much of our income comes from sales of perishable merchandise, which can lose its value quickly; such losses could harm our operating results and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. In addition to spoilage due to the supply-chain disruptions described above, we could also suffer significant spoilage if our refrigerators and freezers malfunction or if we suffer lapses of quality control inspection and supervision. If our inspections fail to discover spoilage in a shipment of fresh food, or if we fail to perform our routine inspections of perishable merchandise on our shelves, we could inadvertently offer spoiled food for sale, which could harm our reputation and competitive position. Consumer concerns regarding the safety and quality of food products or health concerns could adversely affect sales of our products, which could in turn reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. Our sales results could be harmed if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of our fresh food products. Consumers in the PRC are becoming increasingly conscious of food safety and nutrition. Consumer concerns about, for example, the safety of meat, fish, or dairy products, or about the safety of food additives used in processed food products, could discourage them from buying these relatively high-margin products and cause our profit margins to fall and our results of operations to suffer. We rely on the performance of our individual stores, and individual store managers, for our sales, and should any or all of them perform poorly for any reason, our sales results, reputation and competitive position would suffer and the value of any investment in our common stock could be reduced. We sell all of our products through our individual stores. Each supermarket is managed by a store manager who reports directly to our CEO, Mr. Wang, at least four times a week. Although all purchasing decisions are made by company management and not the store manager, the store manager is responsible for the daily operation of the store. If factors either in or out of a store manager’s control reduce a store’s business—for example disruption of customer traffic by nearby construction, or customer dissatisfaction with store employees—our income could fall. Local construction could prevent customers from reaching our stores; which would harm our sales revenues and net profit, and could reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. From time to time, local events or projects take place in the vicinity of our stores that may have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. Major road construction or building construction could limit customer access to our stores and reduce our sales. We may fail to identify or anticipate trends in consumer preferences, which could result in decreased demand for our merchandise, lower revenues and profits, and a reduction in the value of any investment in our common stock. Our continued success in the retail market depends on our ability to anticipate the changing tastes, dietary habits and lifestyle preferences of customers. If we are not able to anticipate and identify new consumer trends and stock our shelves accordingly, our sales may decline and our operating results may be adversely affected. For example, we believe meat and dairy products have strong growth potential in northeastern China and, accordingly, we have increased our focus on sales of these products, which tend to have higher-than-average profit margins. If the market for these products in the PRC does not grow as we expect, our income may not grow as we expect and our operating results may suffer. Our profit margins could narrow and as a result the value of any investment in our common stock could be reduced. Profit margins in the grocery retail industry are narrow. In order to increase or maintain our profit margins, we are developing strategies to reduce costs, such as purchasing strategies and distribution center efficiencies, and to increase sales of higher-margin items such as private-label merchandise and prepared-in-store foods. There is no guarantee that we will implement these strategies successfully, and if we are not successful, our profitability could suffer. We rely heavily on information technology systems, which could fail, causing damage to our operations and reducing the value of any investment in our common stock. 36 We have a large and complex information technology system that we rely on to keep track of inventory and sales, determine our ordering of supplies, and communicate among stores, our distribution center and our corporate headquarters. Like any electronic data management system, ours is subject to malfunction. In such a case, our operations could be significantly disrupted as we work to fix the problem, upgrade our system or adopt a new system. In addition, despite our considerable efforts and technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, and other system disruptions could occur. This could lead to loss of sales and diversion of corporate resources from operations and planning. The supermarket and retail industries in the PRC may face increasing competition from both domestic and foreign companies; such a trend could limit our profits and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. The supermarket and retail industries in the PRC are highly and increasingly competitive. Giant international retailers such as Wal-Mart and Carrefour have entered the market, national retailers such as Bailian and Lianhua have expanded, and local and regional competition has grown. Some of these companies have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours. Our competitors could adapt more quickly than we do to evolving consumer preferences or market trends, have more success than we do in their marketing efforts, control supply costs and operating expenses more effectively than we do, or do a better job than we do in formulating and executing expansion plans. They may merge or form alliances to achieve a scale of operations or a number of stores in northeastern China which would make it difficult for us to compete. Increased competition may also lead to price wars, counterfeit products or negative brand advertising, all of which may adversely affect our market share and profit margins. Expansion of large retailers into new locations may limit the locations into which we may profitably expand. To the extent to which our competitors are able to take advantage of any of these factors, our competitive position and operating results may suffer. We also face heightened competition from restaurants and fast food chains, which are capturing an increasing portion of household food expenditures in the PRC. Because we face intense competition, we must anticipate and quickly respond to changing consumer demands more effectively than our competitors. In order to succeed in implementing our business plan, we must achieve and maintain favorable recognition of our private-label brands, effectively market our products to consumers, competitively price our products, and maintain and enhance a perception of value for consumers. We must also source and distribute our merchandise efficiently. Failure to accomplish these objectives could impair our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our growth and profitability. If we have difficulties finding and leasing new retail space for new stores or retaining existing retail space, our operations could be disrupted, we will be unable to grow as planned, and the value of any investment in our common stock could be reduced. We currently lease the majority of our store locations. Typically, our supermarket leases have initial 15- to 20-year lease terms and may include renewal options for up to an additional 15 or 20 years. Our revenues and profitability would be negatively impacted if we are unable to renew these leases at reasonable rates. Our expansion plans for 2009 call for us to open additional stores which will have additional retail space of approximately 30,000 square meters and one additional distribution center which will have approximately 20,000 square meters. Our success in executing our expansion plan depends on our ability to open or acquire new stores in existing and new retail areas and to operate these stores successfully. We may also choose to continue to expand through acquisitions. We must find suitable locations for any new stores and reach reasonable terms with building owners and other interested parties, and we face intense competition from other retailers for such sites. If we cannot find suitable locations available at a reasonable cost, our ability to grow organically will be compromised. We have inadequate insurance coverage, and as a result we could be exposed to significant losses if any of our products cause personal injury or illness or if our property is damaged. This exposure could harm our business and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. 37 The sale of food products for human consumption involves an inherent risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, contamination, including by bacteria, insecticides, fertilizers and other substances, spoilage and mislabeling. Although we and our suppliers are subject to governmental inspections and regulations, consumption of our products could still cause a health-related illness in the future, and we could be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such events. Under certain circumstances, we could be required to recall products. Unlike most supermarket companies in the United States, but in line with industry practice in the PRC, we do not maintain product liability insurance, and we cannot predict the extent of liability we could face if such events were to occur. In addition, even if a claim of damage is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertions that merchandise we carry caused personal injury or illness could adversely affect our reputation and competitive position. In addition, our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. We do not maintain a reserve fund for potential warranty or defective products claims. If we experience an increase in warranty claims or if our repair and replacement costs associated with warranty claims increase significantly, our results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Our company name and private-label merchandise may be subject to counterfeiting or imitation, which could damage our reputation and brand image, lead to higher administrative costs, and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. We regard brand positioning as an important element of our competitive strategy, and intend to position our Qingkelong brand and our private-label brands to be associated with low prices, high quality, convenience and a positive shopping experience. There have been frequent occurrences of counterfeiting and imitation of products in the PRC in the past. Imitation of our company name or logo could occur in the future and there is no guarantee that we will be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or imitation could damage our corporate and brand image. In addition, other companies could bring claims against us for trademark infringement, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend. Difficulties with hiring, employee training and other labor issues could disrupt our operations and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. Our operations depend on the work of nearly 3,500 employees. We may not be able to successfully hire and train new employees or integrate those employees into the programs and policies of the Company. Any such difficulties would reduce our operating efficiency and increase our costs of operations, and could harm our overall financial condition. If we cannot obtain additional financing or if we do not effectively manage our growth, our expansion efforts could fail, limiting our growth and the value of any investment in our common stock. There is no guarantee that our expansion plans will be successfully implemented. In order to fully implement these plans, we will need additional funding, will have to hire a large number of additional employees, will have to secure new retail locations, and will have to integrate new stores and distribution routes into our existing business. In addition we will need to successfully integrate any stores which we acquire. There is no guarantee that we will meet all or any of these needs and therefore no guarantee that we will succeed in our efforts to expand. Our net sales revenue has increased from $45.6 million in 2004 to $157.8 million in 2008. Our expansion will depend both on the profitability of our business and our ability to raise capital from outside sources. We plan to open new supermarkets in 2009 which will have additional retail space of approximately 30,000 square meters and one additional distribution center which will have approximately 20,000 square meters. Some of these store we plan to open ourselves and some will be opened through businesses which we acquire. We will finance this from funds generated from operations which we believe will be sufficient to fund this expansion. In addition, we intend to seek additional financing to finance the opening of even more stores during the remainder of 2009. If our efforts to obtain additional financing are successful we plan to open even more stores in 2009. Our ability to obtain financing will depend upon a number of factors, including: 38 · our financial condition and results of operations; · the condition of the PRC and global economy; · conditions in relevant financial markets; · relevant PRC laws regulating financial markets; and · the success of our expansion activities to date. In view of the global financial crisis it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain additional financing and we cannot assure you that our efforts to obtain additional financing will be successful If we are unable to obtain financing, as needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, we will not be able to fully implement our expansion plans and or ability to expand would be entirely dependent or funds generated for operations and our financial position, competitive condition, growth and profitability may be adversely affected. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. We may not have the requisite experience to manage and operate a larger network of stores and distribution centers. In addition, we may face challenges in integrating acquired businesses with our own. These events would increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy these increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. We rely on Mr. Zhuangyi Wang, our Chief Executive Officer and President, for the management of our business, and the loss of his services could significantly harm our business and prospects and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and participation of our current management team, but have a particular reliance upon Mr. Zhuangyi Wang, our Chief Executive Officer and President, for the direction of our business. The loss of the services of Mr. Wang for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. There is no guarantee that the services of Mr. Wang will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Wang. We have entered into an employment contract with Mr. Wang, but that agreement does not guarantee Mr. Wang’s continuing to manage the Company. We do not have key man insurance on Mr. Wang, and if he were to die and we were unable to replace him for a prolonged period of time, we could be unable to carry out our long-term business plan, and our future prospects for growth, and our business, could be harmed. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel to support our growth and if we are unable to retain or hire such personnel in the future, our ability to implement our business objectives could be adversely affected and the value of any investment in our common stock could be reduced. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team, in particular our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Zhuangyi Wang. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for senior management and personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or senior personnel, or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or senior personnel in the future. This failure could materially and adversely affect our future growth and financial condition. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC, and such difficulties could reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. The PRC historically has not adopted a western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, or a modern western style of banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of employees qualified in these areas to work for our operating company in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we have had, and may continue to have difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices relating to our PRC operations that meet Western standards. 39 We recently discovered a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. In connection with the review by the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Company’s (i) audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 (as set forth in Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-150800) originally filed on May 9, 2008, as amended on May 22 2008, August 8, 2008 and October 15, 2008 (the “S-1”) and Current Report on Form 8-K/A (File No. 33-10893) filed on April 15, 2008); and (ii) interim financial statements for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2008 (as set forth in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 14, 2008 (the “10-Q”)), management identified certain material weaknesses in the internal controls. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The Board of Directors concluded, based on the recommendation of management that those financial statements should be restated and should no longer be relied upon. On November 12, 2008 the Board of Directors received a letter from Albert Wong & Co, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, advising the Board of certain deficiencies in the internal controls that they considered to material weaknesses. These deficiencies related to errors regarding how to classify various types of revenue. Specifically the Company’s income from suppliers and consignees includes fees paid in connection with product promotions, general sponsorships, and savings relating to transportation and early settlement of our accounts. Consistent with EITF 02-16, product promotions and. general sponsorships are classified as a reduction in the cost of inventory. Other income from suppliers and consignees, such as savings relating to transportation and early settlement of our accounts should be included as other operating income in net revenues. The auditors recommended that a better understanding be obtained regarding the proper classification of revenue, and that this understanding be clearly communicated to all employees, particularly the employees coding and recording the receipt of these revenues. The auditors also suggested that the best approach would be the adoption of a revenue recognition policy that addresses recording income from suppliers and consignees. If a reasonable policy is consistently followed, this will provide for much greater credibility and consistency in the financial statements. In addition, as part of our expansion plan, during the last quarter of 2008 we acquired the business and assets of five separate businesses in five different cities Northeastern China for an aggregate purchase price in excess $19 million. Our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective in that none of these acquisitions were reported in timely filings made with the SEC. As a result of these material weaknesses and deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures made in our public filings, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our company's independent registered public accountants. The SEC extended the compliance dates for non-accelerated filers like us. Accordingly, the annual assessment of our internal controls first applied to our annual report for the 2007 fiscal year and the attestation requirement of management's assessment by independent registered public accountants will first apply to our annual report for the 2009 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in the future in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. 40 We could be required to pay liquidated damages to our investors under the registration rights agreement entered into with our investors and such a payment could harm our financial condition and reduce the value of any investment in our common stock. We may not be able to meet all of the deadlines set forth in the registration rights agreement relating to the private placement described in this report which agreement requires us to, among other things, register for resale in accordance with certain deadlines the shares of common stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock, Series A Warrant and Series B Warrants acquired by the investors in our private placement on March 28, 2008. If we fail to meet one or more of those deadlines we would, in the absence of a waiver, be required to pay the investors liquidated damages described in the registration rights agreement and be held in default under the transaction agreements. Payment of a significant amount of liquidated damages would harm our profitability and we may not have sufficient cash to pay them. Under the terms of the registration rights agreement we agreed to have a registration statement registering the resale of certain of the securities purchased by the investors in the private placement declared effective with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to September 24, 2008. This breach was waived by the investors under a Waiver and Release dated as of March 9, 2009. For a detailed description of our obligation to register our stock and the circumstances in which we could be required to pay liquidated damages, see the discussion in this report under “Reverse Merger and Private Placement” under the subheading “Registration Rights Agreement.” We may have violated Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 and as a result certain investors may have rescission rights against us and we may be required to pay damages. We may have violated Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 and consequently certain investors may have rescission rights as to any securities acquired. The filing by us on October 24, 2008 of a Current Report on Form 8-K disclosing a power point presentation made at a number of investor conferences in October may constitute a violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933. The power point presentation contained certain statements about our company in addition to those contained in the registration statement then being reviewed by the SEC (which registration statement has not yet been declared effective) and did not disclose many of the related risks and uncertainties described in the registration statement relating to an investment in our company. If this action was held by a court or other governmental body to be a violation of the Securities Act, we could be required to repurchase any shares purchased by investors as a result of the power point presentation and pay statutory interest. As no investors purchased any shares from us as a result of the power point presentation we have determined that notwithstanding the possible violation by us of Section 5 there is no contingent liability for any damages or other remedy under Section 12(a)(1) of the Securities Act. Risks related to an investment in our common stock Our Chief Executive Officer controls us through his position and stock ownership; his interests may differ from yours, and he could cause us to take actions that are contrary to your interests and that could reduce the value of your stock .. Our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Wang, has a call option to acquire all of the shares of Winning State (BVI), which currently owns 19,082,299 (approximately 91%) shares of our common stock. This call option is currently exercisable. Even assuming conversion of all of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and all of the Series A Warrants and Series B Warrants are exercised, Mr. Wang will own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Wang will be able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Wang’s interests may differ from that of other stockholders. 41 We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future; this may affect the price of our stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiary based in the PRC, QKL-China. Our operating subsidiary, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on its ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. (See “Risks related to doing business in the People’s Republic of China” above.) In addition, under the terms of the securities purchase agreement relating to the private placement, as long as any Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, the Company cannot pay any dividends on the common stock unless such dividends are also paid to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. There is currently a very limited trading market for our common stock; you may not be able to sell your shares at the time or at the price you expect or at all. Our common stock has been quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board since 2005. Because we were formerly a shell company, our bid and ask quotations have not regularly appeared on the OTC Bulletin Board for any extended period of time. There is a limited trading market for our common stock and our common stock may never be included for trading on any stock exchange or through any other quotation system, including the NASDAQ Stock Market. You may not be able to sell your shares due to the absence of an established trading market. Our common stock is currently subject to the penny stock regulations, which may reduce the liquidity of our common stock and limit your ability to sell your shares. On March 25, 2009, the last reported sale price of our common stock quoted on the OTCBB was $2.50 per share. Accordingly, our common stock is subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules as the price has fallen to less than $5.00. Those rules, which require delivery of a schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks before any sale, may further limit your ability to sell your shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. Our common stock currently falls within the definition of penny stock and subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000, or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 or $300,000, together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's prior written consent to the transaction. Additionally, for any transaction, other than exempt transactions, involving a penny stock, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Our common stock is illiquid and subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations, and could lose some or all of its value even if our business is strong. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. 42 The resale in the public market of the shares underlying the Series A Preferred Stock and Warrants acquired in the March 2008 financing and of the shares acquired prior to that financing may cause the market value of our common stock to fall. There is no established trading market for our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the trading market could adversely affect market prices. As of March 25, 2009, there were issued and outstanding (i) 20,882,353 shares of our common stock, (ii) 9,117,647 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (convertible into 9,117,647 shares of common stock); (iii) Series A Warrants to purchase 5,980,955 shares of common stock; (iv) Series B Warrants to purchase 5,924,471 shares of common stock. Assuming conversion of all of the Series A Preferred Stock and exercise of all of the Series A Warrants and Series B Warrants, there will be 41,905,607 shares of common stock outstanding (47,143,604 if all of the options in our option reserve are exercised). Certain of these shares will be are eligible for resale under Rule 144 beginning April 3, 2009. Under the terms of the registration rights agreement entered into with the investors we are required to register for resale all of the shares of common stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series A Warrants and the Series B Warrants. 2,070,836 of these shares are being registered for resale in a registration statement currently on file with the SEC which has not yet been declared effective. Accordingly, there will be a significant number of new shares of common stock on the market in addition to the current public float. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of warrants to purchase shares of common stock at prices that may be below the then current market price of the common stock, could reduce the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 