Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the following risk factors, you should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and assumptions discussed herein, and in other documents that the Company subsequently files with the SEC that update, supplement or supersede such information for which documents are incorporated by reference into this Report. Additional risks not presently known to the Company, or which the Company considers immaterial based on information currently available, may also materially adversely affect the Company’s business. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described herein occur, the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS Ÿ The Company’s dependence upon international customers may impede its ability to supply products During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, approximately 80.61% of the Company’s products were sold internationally. As a result, the Company is subject to risks associated with shipping products across borders, including shipping delays. If the Company cannot deliver its products on a competitive and timely basis, its relationships with international customers may be damaged and its financial condition could be harmed. Ÿ The Company engages in international sales, which expose it to trade restrictions As a result of the Company’s product sales in various geographic regions, the Company may be subject to the risks associated with customs duties, export quotas and other trade restrictions that could have a significant impact on its revenue and profitability. While the Company has not encountered significant difficulties in connection with the sales of its products in international markets, the future imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, custom duties, export quotas or other trade restrictions could have an adverse effect on the Company. Further, the Company cannot assure that the laws of foreign jurisdictions where it sells and seeks to sell its products afford similar or any protection of its intellectual property rights as may be available under U.S. laws. The Company is directly impacted by the political, economic, military and other conditions in the countries where it sells or seeks to sell its products. Ÿ Expansion of the Company’s business may put additional pressure on its management, financial resources and operational infrastructure, impeding the Company’s ability to meet any increased demand for its products and possibly impairing its operating results The Company’s business plan is to significantly grow its operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for existing products and by the introduction of new product offerings. The Company’s planned growth includes the construction of several new production lines to be put into operation over the next five years, including the growth of its PurCotton retail business. Growth in the Company’s business may place a significant strain on its personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. In addition, the PurCotton retail business is different from the Company’s traditional business base, thus increasing the demands on the management. The Company may be unable to successfully and rapidly expand its sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand or control costs associated with its growth. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, the Company may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage its employees, and such funding may not be available in sufficient amount. Also, as the Company is self-opening the PurCotton retail stores, there is a high capital expenditure for such start-up costs as inventory, rent, deposits and salary. As such, the Company may lose money during this expansion phase for its new business line. If the Company is not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, the Company’s operating results could suffer. 16 Ÿ The Company relies on patent and trade secret laws that are complex and difficult to enforce The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to the Company. In addition, patents issued or licensed to the Company may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, the Company cannot ensure that its competitors have not developed or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate the Company’s products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by the Company. Ÿ The Company depends on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm its business The Company’s future business and results of operations depend to a significant part on the continued contributions of its key technical and senior management personnel, including Jianquan Li, Xiuyuan Fang and Nianfu Huo, who hold the titles of CEO, President and Chairman, CFO and Vice President and Senior Vice President and Chairman of Supervisory Board, respectively. They also depend to a significant part on the Company’s ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for its operations. For example, with its PurCotton retail business, the Company hired three experienced (in terms of retailing, e-commerce and brand building) general managers for its Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou markets. If the Company loses any of its key employees, or if any key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if the Company is unable to attract and retain skilled employees, the Company’s business could be suffered. Significant turnover of the Company’s senior management could significantly deplete the Company’s institutional knowledge held by its existing senior management team. The Company depends on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of its business, any part of which could be harmed by staff turnover. Ÿ The Company’s products may contain defects, which could adversely affect its reputation and cause it to incur significant costs. Despite testing by the Company, defects may be found in existing or new products. Any such defects could cause the Company to incur significant return and exchange costs, re-engineering costs, divert the attention of the Company’s engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any such defects could force the Company to undertake a product recall program, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could harm its reputation and that of its products. If the Company delivers defective products, its credibility and the market acceptance and sales of its products could be harmed. Ÿ The Company has limited product liability insurance coverage and is subject to potential product liability claims for which it does not have insurance coverage Defects in the Company’s products could subject the Company to potential product liability claims arising from physical injury or property damage. The Company has limited product liability insurance covering the PRC, U.S. and Canadian markets, and does not have product liability insurance for other markets. Any successful claim brought against the Company in the markets not covered by any product liability insurance could adversely harm the Company’s reputation, business and financial condition. Ÿ The Company may not be able to adequately finance the significant costs associated with the development of new medical products The medical products in the medical dressings and medical disposables market change dramatically with new technological advancements. The Company is currently conducting research and development on a number of new products, which require a substantial outlay of capital. To remain competitive, the Company must continue to incur significant costs in product development, equipment, facilities and invest in research and development of new products. These costs may increase, resulting in higher fixed costs and operating expenses. In addition to research and development costs, the Company could be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to the following: · additional engineering and other technical personnel; · advanced design, production and test equipment; · manufacturing adjustment that meet changing customer needs; 17 · technological changes in manufacturing processes; and · manufacturing capacity. The Company’s future operating results will depend, to a significant extent, on its ability to continue to provide new products that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with the design and manufacturing capabilities of competitive third-party suppliers and technologies. The Company will need to increase its net sales to sufficiently offset these increased costs, the failure of which would negatively affect the Company’s operating results. Ÿ The current global financial condition may have a negative impact on the Company’s business and financial condition, especially on the market acceptance of the Company’s new PurCotton® products The current worldwide economic condition has created significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, which may adversely affect the Company’s customers’ ability to buy the Company’s new PurCotton® products. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the current global financial condition and the broader global economic downturn are currently unknown; any one or all of which could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company’s customers' or the Company’s own liquidity and capital resources, or otherwise negatively impact the Company’s business and financial results. Ÿ The Company’s PurCotton® products may be adversely affected by price reductions of raw materials of the Company’s competitive products Markets for all of the Company’s products, especially the Company’s PurCotton® products, are extremely competitive. The Company competes based upon a variety of factors, including cost of production and raw materials. It is possible that the Company’s competitors have lowered their cost of production due to price decrease in rayon and polyester and engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to the Company’s detriment. The Company’s PurCotton business may be adversely affected by competition, and the Company may not be able to maintain its profitability if the competitive environment worsens. Ÿ In order to grow at the pace expected by management, the Company will require additional capital to support its long-term business plan. If the Company is unable to obtain additional capital in future years, it may be unable to proceed with its long-term business plan and the Company may be forced to curtail or cease its operations The Company will require additional working capital to support its long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. The Company’s working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the sales volume during the period and payment terms with its customers. The Company may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to the Company’s earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to the Company’s current outstanding securities. In addition, the Company may grant registration rights to investors to purchase its equity or debt securities in the future. If the Company is unable to raise additional financing, it may be unable to implement its long-term business plan, develop or enhance its products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force the Company to substantially curtail or cease operations. Ÿ The Company may be exposed to potential risks relating to its internal controls over financial reporting and its ability to have those controls attested to by its independent auditors As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the companies’ internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is set out in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of the 2010 Form 10-K. As a smaller reporting company, the Company is not required to have auditor’s attestation reports at this time. However, should the Company be so required in the future, it can provide no assurance that the Company will be able to receive a positive attestation from its independent auditors. If significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls are identified, the Company may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. In such case, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial statements. 18 Ÿ The Company’s holding company structure and Chinese accounting standards and regulations may limit the payment of dividends The Company has no direct business operations other than ownership of its subsidiaries. While the Company has no current intention of paying dividends, should it decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, its ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from its operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, the Company’s operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to the Company, including restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of retained profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. The Company’s subsidiaries in China are required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, the Company’s subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, the Company will be unable to pay any dividends. Ÿ The Company may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) or other Chinese government authorities if it or its Chinese directors or employees fail to comply with recent Chinese regulations relating to employee share options or shares granted by offshore listed companies to Chinese domestic individuals On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and the corresponding Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007. Both of these regulations became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, all foreign exchange matters relating to employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans with Chinese domestic individuals’ participation require approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, Chinese domestic individuals who are granted share options or shares by an offshore listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. As the Company is an offshore listed company, its Chinese domestic directors and employees who may be granted share options or shares shall become subject to the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, employees stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans of offshore listed companies with Chinese domestic individuals’ participation must be filed with the SAFE. After the Chinese domestic directors or employees exercise their options, they must apply for the amendment to the registration with the SAFE. The Company is reviewing the procedures for such SAFE registration. If the Company or its Chinese domestic directors or employees fail to comply with these regulations, the Company or its Chinese domestic directors or employees may be subject to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. Ÿ The Company only has a royalty-free license to use certain patents and technologies in its business. The Company and its subsidiaries have licensed the right to use four patents and related technologies for nonwoven fabric manufacturing from its CEO, President and Director, Jianquan Li, on a royalty-free basis and the license of some of the patents and related technologies is provided under certain license agreements entered into between the Company and Jianquan Li in 2005 and 2007. If the licensor, Jianquan Li, unilaterally terminates or repudiates the license agreements, the Company’s business may be adversely affected as the Company may have to litigate or arbitrate to retain such license rights. Further, if any of such licensed patents and related technologies is challenged or infringed or any claim is made against it, the Company cannot defend or dispute such challenge or claim or take action to defend against such infringement directly and will need to rely on the licensor to do so. Ÿ The Company’s business could be subject to environmental liabilities. The Company uses certain hazardous substances in its operations. Currently it does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its business, revenues or results of operations as a result of compliance with Chinese environmental laws and regulations. However, the risk of environmental liability and charges associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of the Company’s business, and there is no assurance that material environmental liabilities and compliance charges will not arise in the future. 19 Ÿ If the ultimate consumers of products of which the Company’s products are components or the assembling parts successfully assert product liability claims against the Company due to defects in such products, the Company operating results may suffer and its reputation may be harmed. The Company’s products are applied in the manufacturing of other products. Significant property damage and personal injuries can result from defective products. If the Company’s products are not properly packaged or assembled or used in the manufacturing process of other products, and if property damage and personal injuries result from products of which the Company’s products are components or the assembling parts, the Company could be subject to claims for damages and its reputation will be damaged, regardless of whether such claims are successful. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S INDUSTRY Ÿ The Company may not be able to maintain or improve its competitive position because of strong competition in the medical dressing and medical disposable industry, and the Company expects this competition to continue to intensify The medical dressing and medical disposable industry is highly competitive. The Company faces competition from medical dressing and medical disposable manufacturers around the world. Some of the Company’s international competitors are larger than the Company and possess greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products and services that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to the Company’s products and services and may be able to market their products more effectively than the Company can because they have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company does. They may also be able to devote greater resources than the Company to develop, promote and sell their products. Increased competition may force the Company to reduce its prices, resulting in fewer customer orders, and loss of market share. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to distinguish itself in a competitive market. To the extent that the Company is unable to compete against existing and future competitors successfully, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition would face material adverse effects. Ÿ Cost containment measures that are prevalent in the healthcare industry may result in lower margins The health care market was typified in recent years by strict cost containment measures imposed by governmental agencies, private insurers and other “third party” payers of medical costs. In response to these economic pressures, virtually all segments of the health care market have become extremely cost sensitive and in many cases hospitals and other health care providers have become affiliated with purchasing consortiums that obtain large quantities of needed products and thus can sell at much lower cost. These factors in combination have hindered suppliers and manufacturers like the Company who may not be able to supply the large quantities sought by the purchasing consortiums or who are unable to respond to the need for lower product pricing. Ÿ The Company’s failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could impair its operations and reduce its market share In China, medical sanitary materials and dressings, including medical gauzes, absorbent cottons, bandages and disposable surgical suits, are supervised as medical devices and are administered by the Department of Medical Device of State Drug Administration of China. The technology and specifications of these types of products must conform to and comply with Regulations for the Supervision and Administration of Medical Devices of China and the relevant Chinese laws and standards. In addition, since the Company sells its products in the international markets, its products are subject to regulations imposed by various governmental agencies in the markets where its products are sold. For example, the Company’s products exported to the United States must be listed with the FDA. Certain of the Company’s products exported to the U.S. require 510(k) clearance. All the Company’s products exported to European countries must have the CE certificate. The Company also needs a Certificate of Foreign Manufacture for the Japanese market. These layers of regulation cause delays in the distribution of the Company’s products and may require the Company to incur operating costs resulting from the need to obtain approvals and clearances from regulators. Although the Company believes that it has reached the applicable standards and obtained the required certificates in the markets mentioned above, however, the Company may not be able to fully comply with all the licensing/certification requirements in these markets in the future. Ÿ The Company’s margins are reduced when it sells its products to customers through a buying group The Company believes that the use of buying groups by customers is becoming a trend in its industry. These buying groups aggregate the demand of several different customers and then buy products in bulk at lower prices than any of the customers would be able to obtain individually. The Company has only limited production capacity. This makes it difficult for the Company to meet the large demand from those buying groups which represent overseas customers in developed countries. A single order of one kind of product from a top 500 multinational buyer could require the full manufacturing capacity of one of the Company’s plants. Although the Company has expanded its manufacturing capacity, its capacity is still not large enough to meet the demands of these clients. As a result, the Company may lose business to competitors who have more manufacturing capacity than does the Company. 20 RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Ÿ Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm the Company and its operational results Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the Chinese government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This creates uncertainty in the Company’s operations and profitability. Some examples are: · level of government involvement in the economy; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; · balance of payments position; · international trade restrictions; and · international conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, the Company may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Ÿ Future inflation in China may inhibit the Company’s business activities in China In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and widely fluctuating rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various austerity measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity, including the Company’s business activities, in China, and thereby harm the market for the Company’s products. Ÿ The Company’s business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your ability to legally protect your investment could be limited The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, therefore their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the rights of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permission such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of the Company’s executive officers and its directors are residents of China and not of the United States, so all the assets of these persons are substantially located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult if not impossible, for investors to effect service of process in the United States, or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against the Company or any of these persons. Ÿ The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which the Company must conduct its business activities China has recently only permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. The Company’s ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its economic policies and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. The Company believes that its operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on the Company’s part to ensure compliance with such regulations or interpretations. 21 Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require the Company to divest itself of any interest the Company then holds in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Ÿ Restrictions on currency exchange may limit the Company’s ability to receive and use its revenues effectively The majority of the Company’s revenues are settled in Renminbi and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit the Company’s ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. The Company cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi in the future. Ÿ The value of the Company’s securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between other currencies and Renminbi The value of the Company’s common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and other currencies that the Company’s sales may be denominated, such as Euro, British pound, Australian dollars, and etc. For example, to the extent that the Company needs to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for its operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, the Company’s financial position, the business of the Company, and the price of the Company’s common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if the Company decides to convert its Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on its common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the Company’s retained earnings which are denominated in Renminbi would be reduced Ÿ Recent Chinese regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by Chinese residents and registration requirements for China resident shareholders owning shares in offshore companies may subject the Company’s China resident shareholders to personal liability and limit the Company’s ability to acquire Chinese companies or to inject capital into its operating subsidiaries in China, limit its subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to the Company, or otherwise materially and adversely affect the Company. State Administration of Foreign Exchange, SAFE, issued a public notice in October 2005, “Circular 75,” requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. To further clarify the implementation of Circular 75, the SAFE issued Circular 124 and Circular 106 on November 24, 2005 and May 29, 2007, respectively. Under Circular 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If these shareholders fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE authorities. If the PRC subsidiaries of the offshore parent company do not report to the local SAFE authorities, they may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to their offshore parent company and the offshore parent company may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the above SAFE registration requirements could result in liabilities under PRC laws for evasion of foreign exchange restrictions. The Company’s PRC resident beneficial owners may not have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of these PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with the applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject these beneficial owners or the Company to fines, legal sanctions and restrictions described above. 22 Ÿ Certain tax treatment that the Company presently enjoys in China is scheduled to expire over the next several years. Some of the Company’s subsidiaries are entitled to certain preferential tax treatment which will expire in 2010, 2011 or 2012, as applicable. When such preferential tax treatment expires, the Company’s income tax expenses will increase, reducing its net income below what it would be if it continued to enjoy such preferential tax treatment. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR THE COMPANY’S STOCK Ÿ The Company is subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” as an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of December 7, 2010, the closing price for the Company’s common stock was $5.51. If the Company’s stock is a “penny stock,” it may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the “Penny Stock Rule.” This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors,” generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell the Company’s securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of the Company’s securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure also is required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that the Company’s common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if the Company’s common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, the Company would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Ÿ The market price for the Company’s common stock has been and may be volatile. The trading price of the Company’s common stock has and may continue to fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include, in addition to the risk factors set forth in this Report and the risk factors incorporated by reference herein, the Company’s quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in the Company’s industry, announcements by the Company or its competitors of acquisitions, new products, product improvements, commercial relationships, intellectual property, legal, regulatory or other business developments and changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding the Company or its competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for companies based in China in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially affect the Company’s stock price, regardless of its operating results. Further, the market for the Company’s common stock is limited and the Company cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. The Company cannot predict what effect this limited market will have on the volume or trading price of its common stock. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce the Company’s market price due to the low volume of trading, which may in turn lower the volume of trading even more. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell the Company’s common stock for a positive return on your investment. Ÿ Certain of the Company’s stockholders hold a significant percentage of the Company’s outstanding voting securities Mr. Jianquan Li and his wife Ping Tse own approximately 74.68% of the Company’s outstanding voting securities as of December 8, 2010. As a result, they possess significant influence, giving them the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of the Company’s Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. Their ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. 23 Ÿ Certain provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control The Company’s Articles of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict the Company’s ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the Company’s stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 