Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Based on current information, we believe that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our business. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those discussed below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also could affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should carefully consider the following risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred significant net losses from continuing operations in the recent past, and such losses may continue in the future, which may result in a need for increased access to capital. If our cash provided by operating and financing activities is insufficient to fund our cash requirements, we could face substantial liquidity problems. Our net losses from continuing operations attributable to C&D Technologies, Inc. were $25,538, $16,885 and $4,764 for the fiscal years ending 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Further, as of January 31, 2010, we have approximately $154,000 of debt related to our Credit Facility, 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes and China line of credit. In the event we require additional capital in the future, due to continued losses in the future at unanticipated levels, debt maturities, or otherwise, individually or in combination, such capital may not be available on satisfactory terms, or available at all. Our liquidity derived from our Credit Facility is based on availability determined by a borrowing base. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of eligible assets to support our required liquidity in the future. In addition, our Credit Facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios if our availability falls below certain thresholds. Our ability to meet these financial provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Rising prices of lead and other commodities and other circumstances have resulted in us obtaining amendments to our financial covenants in the past. Such amendments may not be available in the future, if required. There is uncertainty regarding our ability to maintain liquidity sufficient to operate our business and continue as a going concern. Current credit and capital market conditions combined with our recent history of operating losses and negative cash flows are likely to impact and/or restrict our ability to access capital markets in the near-term and any such access would likely be at an increased cost and under more restrictive terms and conditions. Further, such constraints may also affect our agreements and payment terms with vendors and certain of our vendors may require us to pay for purchases in advance or upon delivery or on reduced terms. Accordingly, we may not be able to continue operating as a going concern, including filing of a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to satisfy our cash requirements in the near term from cash provided by operating activities. If our cash requirements exceed the cash provided by our operating activities, then we would look to our cash balance and committed credit line and/or revolver to satisfy those needs. However, we may not be able to access our revolving credit facility if we are in default under our revolving credit agreement. Absent access to additional liquidity from credit markets, or other sources of external financial support, including accommodations from key vendors, we may not have the minimum levels of cash necessary to operate the business during fiscal year 2011. We may need to delay capital expenditures, curtail, eliminate or dispose of substantial assets or operations, if possible in an adequate and timely manner. Any breach of the covenants in our Credit Facility or the indentures governing our 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes could cause a default under our Credit Facility and other debt (including the 2005 and 2006 Notes), which would restrict our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility, thereby significantly impacting our liquidity. If we incur an event of default under any of these debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to these debt instruments to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under these debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or, in the case of the 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes, following certain fundamental changes. Additionally, our 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes have initial maturities (put provisions) in November 2011 and November 2012, respectively. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our Credit Facility or the indentures governing the 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes, the lenders under our Credit Facility or the holders of the 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under those facilities, which would have an material adverse impact on the Company including filing of a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, particularly lead, could increase our costs or cause delays in shipments, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our operating results could be, and have been in the past, adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly lead, the primary cost component of our battery products, or other product parts or components such as copper and plastics. Lead represented approximately 40% of our cost of sales in fiscal year 2010. Lead market prices averaged $1.21 per pound in fiscal year 2008, $0.89 per pound in fiscal year 2009 and $0.83 per pound in fiscal year 2010. Lead traded as high as $1.18 per pound on January 7, 2010. We have lead clauses in many customer contracts which allow us to offset the changes in lead costs through higher / lower revenue—however, generally on a lag basis. In the current fiscal year these lead clauses resulted in sales price increases. Sales price increases are ultimately offset by higher cost lead in direct materials. A significant increase in the price of one or more raw materials, parts or components or the inability to successfully implement price increases / surcharges to mitigate such cost increases in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate supply and delivery of raw materials, including lead, and other product parts or components from our suppliers or from internal manufacturing capacity. Although we work closely with both our internal and external suppliers (and, as to the continuing availability of lead, our industry associations) to avoid encountering unavailability or shortages, we may encounter shortages in the future. The cessation, reduction or interruption of supply of raw materials, product parts or components, including the reduction in available credit from vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The loss of a key supplier or the inability to obtain certain key products or components could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products, which could negatively affect customer satisfaction or cause a loss of sales to competitors, thereby reducing our revenues, or could increase our costs. 12 Table of Contents Market disruptions caused by a financial crisis could affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs at reasonable cost and our ability to meet long-term commitments, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our Credit Facility amongst other avenues to satisfy our liquidity needs. Further disruptions in the credit markets or further deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition, may discourage or prevent lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments or agreeing to renew commitments. Market disruptions may also limit our ability to issue debt securities in the capital markets. We can provide no assurances that our lenders will meet their existing commitments or that we will be able to access the credit markets in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, reduced financing alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing other discretionary expenditures. Continued market disruptions could cause a broad economic downturn, which may lead to increased incidence of customers’ failure to pay for products delivered, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The capital market disruptions could result in increased costs related to variable rate debt. As a result, continuation of the market disruptions could increase our interest expense and adversely impact our results of operations. A disruption in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affects the value of the investments held within our pension plans. Significant declines in the value of the investments held within our pension plans may require us to increase contributions to those plans in order to meet future funding requirements if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value in the foreseeable future. These trends may also adversely impact our results of operations, net cash flows and financial positions, including our shareholders’ equity. Market conditions may unfavorably impact the value of pension plan assets and liabilities, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under our pension plans and could significantly impact our results of operations and financial position. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may affect investment returns and which may fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension plan assets will increase the funding requirements under our pension plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value. In addition, our pension plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. In fiscal years 2010 and 2009 our contributions to our plans were $2,300 and $2,600, respectively. We expect to make required contributions totaling approximately $5,100 to our plans in fiscal year 2011. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension plans. Also, future increases in pension costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable from our customers and the results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. During fiscal 2009, the unfunded status of our pension plans increased significantly primarily due to lower than expected asset returns, which are expected to result in increased benefit costs and minimum required funding contributions in future years. During fiscal 2010, the unfunded status of our pension plans increased again, to a lesser extent as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to lower than expected discount rates. 13 Table of Contents Restrictive loan covenants may impact our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our $75,000 principal amount Line of Credit Facility (“Credit Facility”), the indenture governing our 5.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2025 (“2005 Notes”) and the indenture governing our 5.50% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (“2006 Notes”), contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. The Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; • purchase or redeem stock; • issue stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments and extend credit; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • transfer and sell assets; • effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • create liens on our assets to secure debt. Our liquidity derived from the Credit Facility is based on availability determined by a borrowing base. The availability is calculated monthly and is dependent upon our eligible receivables, inventory and certain equipment. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of eligible assets to support our required liquidity. In addition, our Credit Facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Rising prices of lead and other commodities and other circumstances have resulted in us obtaining amendments to our financial covenants in the past. The Credit Facility includes a material adverse change clause which defines an event of default as a material adverse change in our business, assets or prospects. Our lenders could claim a breach under the material adverse change covenant or the cross-default provisions under our Credit Facility under certain circumstances, including, for example, if holders of our 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes were to obtain the right to put their notes to us in the event that our common stock was no longer listed on any national securities exchange. An interpretation of events as a material adverse change or any breach of the covenants in our Credit Facility or the indentures governing our 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes could cause a default under our Credit Facility and other debt (including the 2005 and 2006 Notes), which would restrict our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility, thereby significantly impacting our liquidity. Any breach of the covenants in our Credit Facility or the indentures governing our 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes could cause a default under our Credit Facility and other debt (including the 2005 and 2006 Notes), which would restrict our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility, thereby significantly impacting our liquidity. If we incur an event of default under any of these debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to these debt instruments to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under these debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or, in the case of the 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes, following certain fundamental changes. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our Credit Facility or the indentures governing the 14 Table of Contents 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes, the lenders under our Credit Facility or the holders of the 2005 Notes and 2006 Notes could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under those facilities. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE. We do not currently meet all of the NYSE continued listing standards, which require us, among other things, to maintain (i) an average closing price of at least $1.00 per share of common stock, (ii) a market capitalization of $15 million, and (iii) either a minimum average global market capitalization of at least $50 million during any consecutive 30-trading-day period or equity of at least $50 million. Our market capitalization fluctuates, and on March 31, 2010 was $42,179. At January 31, 2010, our equity was below $50 million, and has not increased since that date. If at some future time we are notified by the NYSE that we have fallen below the NYSE’s continued listing standard relating to minimum average global market capitalization, we will have 45 days to submit a plan to NYSE that demonstrates our ability to regain compliance within 18 months. Upon receipt of this plan, the NYSE will have 45 calendar days to review and determine whether we have made a reasonable demonstration of our ability to come into conformity with the relevant standards within the 18-month period. The NYSE will either accept the plan, at which time we will be subject to ongoing monitoring for compliance with this plan, or the NYSE will not accept the plan and we will be subject to suspension and delisting proceedings. A delisting of our common stock and our inability to list the stock on another national securities exchange could negatively impact us by: (i) reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; (iii) limiting our ability to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from accessing the public capital markets; (iv) impairing our ability to provide equity incentives to our employees and (v) causing holders of our 2005 Notes and our 2006 Notes to have the right to require us to repurchase their notes for an amount equal to the principal amount outstanding plus accrued but unpaid interest and the make-whole premium set forth in the respective indentures as applicable. While a delisting of our common stock would not constitute a specific event of default under the documents governing our senior credit facilities, our lenders could claim that a delisting would trigger a default under the material adverse change covenant or the cross-default provisions under such documents. Maintaining our manufacturing operations requires significant capital expenditures, and our inability or failure to maintain our operations would have a material adverse impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. We had capital expenditures of approximately $15,000 and $17,000 in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect to spend approximately 2% to 4% of future revenues on capital expenditures in future periods, excluding the construction of any new manufacturing facilities. We may incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes and other events that impact our business. If we are unable or fail to adequately maintain our manufacturing capacity or quality control processes, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse impact on our market share and our ability to generate revenue. Changes in the tax legislation in the Peoples Republic of China may impact our competitiveness and increase the cost basis of product manufactured at our Shanghai facility. Changes in the tax legislation in the Peoples Republic of China have effectively increased the cost basis of products manufactured at our Shanghai facility and exported from China by over 10% in the past. Absent price increases to our customers, these changes would impact profitability of our Shanghai facility and may also impact the competitiveness of this operation versus alternative manufacturing locations. 15 Table of Contents Certain of our materials sourcing originate in China. Enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing Chinese law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction in China. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. We may face additional impairment charges if economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions substantially change. Assessment of the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets is an integral part of our normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of long-lived assets is dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects our best estimates at a particular point in time, which may vary from testing date to testing date. The economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected product selling prices and materials costs, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on both the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time at which such impairments are recognized. Future changes in the economic environment and the economic outlook for the assets being evaluated could also result in additional impairment charges. Any significant asset impairments would adversely impact our financial results. Adverse economic or market changes in certain market sectors in which we conduct business could impact our results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by conditions in the domestic and global economies or the markets in which we conduct business, such as telecommunications, UPS, cable television, switchgear and control and military. Our products are principally used in connection with the telecommunications and IT industries. Weakness in these markets, such as a decline in consumer and business expenditures for IT and telecommunications may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. Any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by decreasing revenues and gross profit margins. We are subject to pricing pressure from our larger customers. We face significant pricing pressures in all of our business segments from our larger customers. Because of their purchasing size, our larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If we are not able to offset pricing reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have an adverse impact on our financial results. We operate in extremely competitive industries and are subject to continual pricing pressure. We compete with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of electrical storage and power conversion products, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of our industries, consolidation and the financial difficulties being experienced by several of our competitors, we have faced continual and significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures may prevent us from fully recovering increased costs we might incur. We anticipate heightened competitive pricing pressure as Chinese and other foreign producers, who are able to employ labor at significantly lower costs than producers in the U.S. and Western Europe, expand their export capacity and increase their marketing presence in our major U.S. and European markets. Several of our competitors have stronger technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, as well as more significant name recognition and established positions in the market and longer-standing relationships with OEMs and other customers than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors own lead smelting facilities which, during periods of lead cost increases or 16 Table of Contents price volatility, may provide a competitive pricing advantage and reduce their exposure to volatile raw material costs. Our ability to maintain and improve our competitive position has depended, and continues to depend, on our ability to control and reduce our costs in the face of these pressures. Difficulties or delays in product development would hinder our financial performance. Our financial performance and our ability to compete are largely dependent on our ability to renew our pipeline of new products and to bring these products to market, including: • introducing viable new products; • successfully completing research and development projects or integrating or otherwise capitalizing upon purchased or licensed technology; • obtaining adequate intellectual property protection; • maintaining or improving product quality or reducing product costs through continued product engineering; and • utilizing or gaining market acceptance of new products. To the extent our research and development initiatives are unsuccessful in one or more of these pursuits, the market does not accept our new or improved products or our sales force is unsuccessful in marketing such products, our financial results will be negatively impacted. In addition, industry standards, customer expectations, new technologies or other products may emerge that could render one or more of our products less desirable or obsolete. Our financial performance could also be affected by competitive products and technologies. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations and currency exchange rates. We have operations in Canada, China, England and Mexico, either directly or through our Chinese majority —owned joint venture. In our financial statements, we translate local currency financial results into United States dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. Our most significant foreign currency exposures are to the Canadian dollar, the British pound and the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) or Yuan. During times of a strengthening United States dollar, our reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer United States dollars. In addition, we may face restrictions on our ability to repatriate funds from our international operations. Foreign operations are subject to risks that can materially increase the cost of operating in foreign countries and thereby may reduce our overall profitability. These risks include, but are not limited to: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • increases in foreign tax rates and foreign earnings potentially being subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate and/or sell our products, including inflation; • the difficulties associated with managing an organization which operates throughout various countries; • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and • limited protection of intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide operations could be adversely impacted by political, economic and social changes, or acts of terrorism or war. Changes in the laws or policies of governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, as well as social and economic conditions, in the countries in which we operate (including the United States) could affect our business 17 Table of Contents and our results of operations. In addition, economic factors (including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates) and competitive factors (such as price competition and business combinations or reorganizations of competitors) or a decline in industry sales or cancelled or delayed orders due to economic weakness or changes in economic conditions, either in the United States or other countries in which we conduct business, could negatively affect our results of operations. Terrorist acts or acts of war, whether in the United States or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to our operations, our suppliers, channels to market or customers, or could cause costs to increase, or create political or economic instability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on third parties whose operations are outside our control. We rely on arrangements with third-party shippers and carriers such as independent shipping companies for timely delivery of our products to our customers. As a result, we may be subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters and rapidly increasing fuel costs. If the services of any of these third parties become unsatisfactory, we may experience delays in meeting our customers’ product demands and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and could cause us to lose customers. We also utilize third party distributors and manufacturer’s representatives to sell, install and service certain of our products. While we are selective in whom we choose to represent us, it is difficult for us to ensure that our distributors and manufacturer’s representatives consistently act in accordance with the standards we set for them. To the extent any of our end-customers have negative experiences with any of our distributors or manufacturer’s representatives; it could reflect poorly on us and damage our reputation, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. Our productivity initiatives, including rationalizations, relocations or consolidations may not be sufficiently effective to improve our financial performance or generate desired cost savings. We have undertaken and may continue to undertake productivity initiatives, including, among others, reorganizations, including the shut down or sale of portions of our business, and facility rationalizations to improve performance or generate cost savings. In addition, we may from time to time relocate or consolidate one or more of our operations. We may not realize any planned performance improvements or cost savings from such activities and delays or other interruptions in production or delivery of products may occur as the result of any rationalization, relocation or consolidation. A rationalization, relocation or consolidation could also cause asset impairments and/or trigger environmental remediation obligations. Further, we may not complete or derive any benefit from these initiatives. We continue to place emphasis on improving the quality of the products we manufacture and on more timely delivery of our products. To the extent management is unsuccessful at achieving the goals of any or all of these initiatives; we will not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. Costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations and liabilities that we may incur from fines and penalties, in the United States and internationally, could adversely impact our financial results and condition. Our facilities are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. The costs of complying with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as participation in voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. We are also subject to potentially significant fines and penalties for non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the nature of the problem, the complexity of the issues, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and/or the government or third parties and, as applicable, other PRPs at 18 Table of Contents multiparty sites, the number and financial viability of other PRPs and risks associated with litigation. These costs and liabilities could adversely impact our financial results and condition. We will continue to strive for elimination of, and seek to have our component part suppliers eliminate, prohibited hazardous substances consistent with legislative requirements. We will continue to actively monitor decisions around environmental legislation and align our compliance with those decisions and the needs of our customers. These efforts may not be successful or completed on a timely basis, the failure of either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have been awarded a government contract by the U.S. Army, and U.S. government agencies have special contracting requirements, which create additional risks. During fiscal year 2010, we were awarded a contract with the U.S. Army to develop large-format lithium-ion battery systems. In contracting with U.S. government agencies, we are subject to various federal contract requirements. Future sales to U.S. government agencies will depend, in part, on our ability to meet these requirements, certain of which we may not be able to satisfy. U.S. government contracts typically contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion, which subjects us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally: • suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; • terminate our existing contracts; • reduce the scope and value of existing contracts; • audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; and • change certain terms and conditions in our contracts. As a U.S. government contractor, we may become subject to periodic audits and reviews. Based on the results of these audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. As part of any such audit or review, the U.S. government may review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including those relating to our purchasing, property, compensation, and/or management information systems. In addition, if an audit or review uncovers any improper or illegal activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of our R&D costs and some marketing expenses, may not be reimbursable or allowed under our contracts. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we may become subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not. Our results may be adversely impacted by customers that become insolvent or bankrupt. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, including risk of insolvency and bankruptcy. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks or risks associated with potential bankruptcy of our customers. To the extent one or more of our customers becomes insolvent or seeks protection from its creditors, we may not be able to collect money due to us and we could incur write-downs to our accounts receivable balances. Additionally, the loss of such customers could negatively impact our financial performance in future periods. 19 Table of Contents Pending or future litigation could impact our financial results and condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected by significant pending and future litigation or claims adverse to us. Types of potential litigation cases include: product liability, contract, employment-related, labor relations, personal injury or property damage, intellectual property, stockholder claims and claims arising from any injury or damage to persons, property or the environment from hazardous substances used, generated or disposed of in the conduct of our business (or that of a predecessor to the extent we are not indemnified for those liabilities). Our domestic business operations are dependent upon our ability to engage in successful collective bargaining with our unionized workforce. Currently, approximately 54% of our domestic workforce is unionized, and we engage in collective bargaining negotiations with the unions that represent them. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups in future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages. Strikes or labor disputes with our employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. A change in our product mix may cause our results of operations to differ substantially from the anticipated results in any particular period. Our overall profitability may not meet expectations if our products, customers or geographic mix are substantially different than anticipated. Our profit margins vary among products, customers and geographic markets. Consequently, if our mix of any of these is substantially different from what is anticipated in any particular period, our profitability could be lower than anticipated. If customers fail to renew supply agreements on terms as favorable to us as existing agreements, our financial results could be adversely impacted. We supply products to certain of our customers pursuant to time-limited supply agreements. These contracts may not be renewed or, if renewed, they may not be renewed on as favorable terms to us as existing agreements, which could adversely impact our financial results. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and proprietary technologies, which could adversely impact our competitive position and therefore adversely impact our business operations and financial results. Material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting existed during fiscal year 2009. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or on a timely basis. Any inability to report and file our financial results in an accurate and timely manner could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations that govern public companies. In particular, we are required to certify our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our registered public accounting firm to 20 Table of Contents report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As a public reporting company, we are required, among other things, to maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting suitable to prepare our publicly reported financial statements in a timely and accurate manner, and also to evaluate and report on such system of internal control. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as of January 31, 2009, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. While we remediated this material weakness during fiscal 2010, there can be no assurance that a material weakness will not be identified in the future. As discussed in our fiscal year 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in 2009, during the prior 2009 fiscal year, our management team under the supervision and direction of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective as a result of certain material weakness. In connection with the assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures at January 31, 2010, we determined that such material weaknesses had been fully remediated and that our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures at January 31, 2010 were effective. The failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting may cause our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to be ineffective and any determination that a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting exists in the future may cause our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to be ineffective. Any such conclusion that our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective in the future may adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and in a timely manner and could negatively impact our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 