ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, along with the other matters discussed in this report, could have a material effect on our future operations, financial results and financial condition and should be carefully reviewed and considered in connection with the other matters discussed herein. Lack of Operating Revenue and Profits. We incurred a substantial deficit from inception to September 28, 2008, which has increased during fiscal 2009. Until we are able to consistently generate revenues that result in operating profits that exceed fixed costs, profitable operations will not be attained and maintained. There can be no assurances that our operations will produce profits. Thus, we may have to continue funding future cash needs through financing activities. We do not know if we can be successful in raising additional capital through financing activities. Capital Needs. The Company’s ability to fund its working capital needs, operating losses, capital expenditures and debt obligations and to maintain adequate liquidity depends on a number of factors not entirely within its control, including the ability to maintain adequate production volumes, the reduction of equipment failures that disrupt production, the willingness of customers to continue to pay prices that yield positive gross margins, the procurement of raw materials at reasonable prices and the continued collection of accounts receivable in a timely manner. The Company will likely be required to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditure for the expansion of production capacity and repay its debts. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to secure such financing and that such financing, if secured, will be sufficient to enable it to fund its operations and repay its debt. Our inability to achieve any of the aforementioned factors could and possibly would have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. There can be no assurances that the Company’s activities will be successful or that the Company will ultimately attain sustained profitability. The Company’s viability depends on its ability to generate cash flow from operations and obtain adequate sources of debt or equity funding to meet current and future commitments. We believe that additional capital will be needed to retire existing debt, $2,000,000 of which matures October 31, 2009, and to fund capital expenditures for the expansion of production capacity in our Marshall facility. As of the date of this report, we have no financing arrangements and no commitments to obtain any such arrangements. If we raise capital by issuing new Common Stock or securities convertible into Common Stock, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders would be reduced, unless the existing stockholders participate in providing such additional capital. Also, any new securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our current common stockholders. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms which are acceptable to us. The uncertainty of achieving profitability and/or obtaining additional financing raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As a result, the report of the Company’s independent public accountants which accompanies the consolidated financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph with respect to the ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Accordingly, its consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should it be unable to continue as a going concern. Ineffective Internal Controls. Our internal controls and procedures were insufficient to prevent or promptly detect the alleged fraudulent raw material purchase transactions and unauthorized use of Company funds by Rod Wallace, our former Chief Executive Officer, which aggregated $401,997 at September 28, 2008, and an additional $153,070 through January 2009 plus related investigation costs of approximately $136,000 from February 2009 through May 2009. The necessary termination of employment of Mr. Wallace as Chief Executive Officer for alleged fraudulent transactions and unauthorized use of Company funds, caused in part by our failure to conduct a criminal background check on our key employees, resulted in a costly and distracting investigation 6 Table of Contents and may have adversely impacted our operations. As a result of the alleged fraudulent transactions and the resulting internal investigation, the Company was unable to complete the audit of its fiscal 2008 financial statements, and accordingly there has been insufficient financial information regarding the Company publicly on file. In addition, our failure to file on a timely basis our Form 10-K for fiscal 2008 and our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2009 resulted in the Company’s Common Stock being removed from the OTC Bulletin Board for failure to maintain current financial information on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting could result in our failure to provide reliable financial reports or to prevent fraud, which, in turn could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Common Stock, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. SEC Investigation. The SEC has recently notified the Company that it will conduct a formal investigation into the alleged fraudulent transactions by Mr. Wallace which formed the basis of our internal investigation, for potential violations by the Company, its officers and directors, of the antifraud provisions and of the reporting and record keeping requirements, including internal controls sections, of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (collectively, the “Acts”). The Company is cooperating fully with the SEC in that investigation and document request. At this point, we are unable to predict the duration, scope or result of the SEC investigation or whether it will result in any legal action, but we anticipate that cooperation with the investigation will continue to be a drain on management time and Company resources. If the SEC determines that the Company was not in compliance with certain sections of the Acts, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Economic Downturn. The current global credit and economic environment appears to have reduced demand for our ties as railroads have decreased their spending budgets. As a result, we have reduced our production schedule from a seven to a five day week. The effects of this could result in delay of or nonpayment of, amounts owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate or do not improve, it could result in further reduced expenditures by our customers, causing further declines in the demand for our product. This could result in a significant adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. It is difficult to predict how long the economic downturn will continue, to what extent it will worsen, and to what extent this will continue to affect us. Loss of Production. We have replaced or upgraded and anticipate that we will continue to replace or upgrade certain equipment on our production lines at the Marshall facility and we anticipate that we will continue to implement process improvements and technical upgrades. We will incur temporary cessations of production due to equipment replacements and upgrades, and planned maintenance of our equipment. Further, we will likely incur some production delays and temporary cessation of operations due to unplanned equipment failures. Temporary cessation of production due to unplanned equipment failures can materially impact our ability to meet production goals and thus decrease sales and cash flow from operations. Quality of Manufactured Ties. The nature of the composite tie manufacturing process is not exact. Consequently, a percentage of ties that are produced are classified as C ties, and are recycled in the production process. When a C tie is produced, the labor and overhead cost associated with that C tie are lost. The production of a large number of C ties could have a material and adverse effect on our cash flow. During 2008, we developed additional procedures to expand and refine our quality and product testing processes. We continue to strive to identify and eliminate production issues that may cause C ties. 7 Table of Contents Replacement of Substandard Ties. The nature of the composite tie manufacturing process is not exact. We may not be able to totally eliminate the production of poor quality ties and our quality control procedures may not detect all such ties, resulting in them being shipped to customers. In 2006, we agreed, as an accommodation to certain customers, to replace a specific and substantial number of ties manufactured in 2005. Again in April 2009 we agreed to replace a specific but lesser number of ties manufactured in 2006. When we manufacture ties for our replacement obligations, we incur manufacturing cost without corresponding sales revenue. If such tie replacements are of substantial quantities, there could be a material and adverse effect on our cash flow. Our liability for agreements to replace specific numbers of ties is included in our warranty reserves of $3,197,708 in fiscal 2008 and $2,488,560 in fiscal 2007. Additionally, on a quarterly basis we provide for a reserve of our estimated liability to replace ties, generally. Availability, Costs and Quality of Raw Material. The raw materials in the TieTek® formula are available from multiple sources at relatively stable prices, except for recycled plastic, which has cyclical variation in supply, quality and cost. During the fiscal year ended September 28, 2008, the cost of recycled plastic remained at high levels. We increased the sales price of our ties to compensate for the increased cost of plastics in our ties, which most customers agreed to pay. Our inability to secure supplies of raw materials at acceptable costs, to pass along increased costs to our customers or to improve the quality of recycled plastic could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantial Dilution. We are presently authorized to issue 30,000,000 shares of Common Stock, of which 10,863,100 shares were outstanding as of September 28, 2008. As of September 28, 2008, we may be required to issue up to 12,445,499 additional shares of our Common Stock as a result of the following: the exercise of all outstanding warrants and options totaling 4,162,522; the conversion of all shares of Series CC Preferred Stock to Common Stock totaling 2,925,834; and the conversion of the 8% Convertible Debentures totaling 5,357,143. In addition, we have elected to pay interest on the 8% Convertible Debentures by issuing shares of our Common Stock. In particular, the conversion price of the 8% Convertible Debentures (“Conversion Price”) and the exercise price (“Exercise Price”) and number of shares of Common Stock that can be purchased upon exercise of the July 2010 Warrants are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events. A dilutive event is generally defined under the 8% Convertible Debentures to include the issuance of Common Stock or Common Stock Equivalents, other than to the holders of the 8% Convertible Debentures, at a price that is lower than the then effective Conversion Price. In the event that we choose or need to raise additional capital, we may be required to do so in such a manner that will result in further dilution of an investor’s ownership and voting interest. Furthermore, sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market could have an adverse effect upon the market price of our Common Stock and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future and at prices we deem appropriate. Volatility of Share Price; Limited Trading Market. The market price of our Common Stock is highly volatile. Our securities have a very limited trading market, and there is a very small public float in our shares, thus trades of our stock in relative small amounts can have an immediate effect on the price. The lack of publicly filed financial information on the Company since August 13, 2008 has adversely impacted the marketability of our Common Stock. Future announcements concerning our major customers or competitors, the results of product testing, technological innovations or commercial products, government rules and regulations, developments concerning proprietary rights, litigation and public concern as to our manufacturing process may have a significant impact on the market price of the shares of our Common Stock. Dependence on Key Customers. More than 90% of total revenues for the years ended September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007 were derived from sales to two customers. On June 21, 2007 we executed a letter agreement with our major customer that provides for the sale of a minimum of 50,000 ties per quarter during the 8 Table of Contents period June 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008. At the end of each quarter through December 31, 2008, the customer is entitled to a rebate of a portion of the sales price paid by it, with such rebate being based on NATG’s profit computed before the rebate. The loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. No assurances can be given regarding the quantity of ties sold to this customer, or that the sales price paid by such customer in future periods will allow the Company ultimately to achieve profitability. Need to Manage Growth. The growth necessary to attain profitability is expected to place a significant strain on our managerial, operating and financial resources. Any inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition and Risk of Technological Obsolescence. Many of our wood tie and other potential competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources and capabilities. These companies and others may independently develop technology for the production of ties similar or superior to our technology, which may result in our product becoming less competitive or obsolete. Competition from other companies, and possibly from universities and research institutions, may increase as advances in technology are made. Technology Rights. We own patents covering the TieTek® technology and also rely on secrecy and confidentiality agreements to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology. In addition, we continue to research and seek additional patent coverage regarding the product and manufacturing process technology. We may also seek patent protection in these and other areas in the future. In general, the application of the patent laws to our potential products is a developing and evolving process, and due to the difficulty and expense of enforcing patents, we may not be able to protect the patents which have been issued. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may seek licenses of other technologies in order to develop, manufacture and market certain technologies in the future. However, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses, or such licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. Even if such licenses are available, the patents or proprietary rights underlying the licenses may prove to be invalid or unenforceable. Sales and Marketing. We market the TieTek® tie and other related products in the U.S. and to a lesser extent, in other parts of the world. Typically, we sell to senior level technical and purchasing officials. In the future, to successfully market to other railroads and other industries, we may elect to expand our sales force, license distribution rights to third parties, joint venture with industry partners, and employ other business and marketing combinations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand such a sales force, find appropriate licensees or joint ventures, or that our sales and marketing efforts will be successful. Dividend Policy. To date, we have paid no dividends on our shares of Common Stock and do not contemplate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Classified Board; Delaware Anti-Takeover Law. Our bylaws provide for the classification of the terms of the members of the Board of Directors into three classes, with the members of one class (or approximately one-third of the Board) elected each year to serve a three-year term. The classified Board of Directors makes it more difficult to change majority control of the Board, which together with the immediate vesting of employee stock options under our 2005 Stock Option Plan may discourage attempts by third parties to make a tender offer or otherwise obtain control of our Company, even if such attempts would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, an anti-takeover law, which prohibits a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. “Business combination” includes mergers, asset sales and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with its affiliates and associates, owns (or, 9 Table of Contents within three years, did own) 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the removal of existing management. A takeover transaction frequently affords stockholders the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over current market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 