Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before investing in our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. You should refer to the other information set forth or referred to in our annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes incorporated by reference herein. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our dependence upon international customers may impede our ability to supply products. During fiscal year 2008, approximately 87% of our products were sold internationally. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with shipping products across borders, including shipping delay. If we cannot deliver our products on a competitive and timely basis, our relationships with international customers may be damaged and our financial condition could be harmed. We engage in international sales, which expose us to trade restrictions. As a result of our product sales in various geographic regions, we may be subject to the risks associated with customs duties, export quotas and other trade restrictions that could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. While we have not encountered significant difficulties in connection with the sales of our products in international markets, the future imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, custom duties, export quotas or other trade restrictions could have an adverse effect on us. Further, we cannot assure that the laws of foreign jurisdictions where we sell and seek to sell our products afford similar or any protection of our intellectual property rights as may be available under U.S. laws. We are directly impacted by the political, economic, military and other conditions in the countries where we sell or seek to sell our products. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management, financial resources and operational infrastructure, impeding our ability to meet any increased demand for our medical products and possibly impairing our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for existing products, and by the introduction of new product offerings. Our planned growth includes the construction of several new production lines to be put into operation over the next five years. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. We may be unable to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand or control costs associated with our growth. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our employees, and such funding may not be available in sufficient quantities. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. We rely on patent and trade secret laws that are complex and difficult to enforce. The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents issued or licensed to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure that our competitors have not developed or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. We depend on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Jianquan Li, Xiuyuan Fang, Jiagan Chen and Nianfu Huo, who hold the titles of CEO, President and Chairman, CFO and Vice President, Vice President of Project Management and General Manager of Winner Zhuhai, respectively. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. 13 Our revenues are highly concentrated in a single customer and our business will be harmed if this customer reduces its orders from us. In fiscal year 2008, almost 15.66% of our business comes from just one customer, Sakai Shoten Co., Ltd, which acts as a purchasing agent for a large number of ultimate consumers of our products in Japan. If we lose this customer and are unable to replace this customer with other customers that purchase a similar amount of our products, our revenues and net income would decline considerably. We are subject to potential product liability claims for which we do not have insurance coverage. Defects in our products could subject us to potential product liability claims that our products are ineffective or cause some harm to the human body. We do not have product liability insurance. Plaintiffs may advance claims that our products or actions resulted in some harm. A successful claim brought against us could significantly harm our business and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately finance the significant costs associated with the development of new medical products. The medical products in the medical dressings and medical disposables market change dramatically with new technological advancements. We are currently conducting research and development on a number of new products, which require a substantial outlay of capital. To remain competitive, we must continue to incur significant costs in product development, equipment, facilities and invest in research and development of new products. These costs may increase, resulting in greater fixed costs and operating expenses. In addition to research and development costs, we could be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to the following: · additional engineering and other technical personnel; · advanced design, production and test equipment; · manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; · technological changes in manufacturing processes; and · manufacturing capacity. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new products that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with the design and manufacturing capabilities of competitive third-party suppliers and technologies. We will need to sufficiently increase our net sales to offset these increased costs, the failure of which would negatively affect our operating results. The current global financial crisis may have a negative impact on our business and financial condition, especially on the market acceptance of our new PurCottonTM products The current worldwide economic crisis has created significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, which may adversely affect our customers’ ability to buy our new PurCottonTM products and fulfill their obligations to us. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the current global financial crisis and a broader global economic downturn are currently unknown; any one or all of them could potentially have a material adverse effect on our customers' or our own liquidity and capital resources, or otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. Our PurCottonTM products may be adversely affected by price reductions of raw materials of our competitive products Markets for all of our products, especially our PurCottonTM products, are extremely competitive. We compete based upon a variety of factors, including cost of production and raw materials. It is possible that our competitors have lowered their cost of production due to price decrease in rayon and polyester and engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. Our PurCottonTM business may be adversely affected by competition, and we may not be able to maintain our profitability if the competitive environment worsens. 14 In order to grow at the pace expected by management, we will require additional capital to support our long-term business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan and we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the companies’ internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. These requirements first applied to us in connection with the Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is set out in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures.” of the 2008 Form 10-K. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. If significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. In such case, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Our holding company structure and Chinese accounting standards and regulations may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of strong competition in the medical dressing and medical disposable industry, and we expect this competition to continue to intensify. The medical dressing and medical disposable industry is highly competitive. We face competition from medical dressing and medical disposable manufacturers around the world. Some of our international competitors are larger than us and possess greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products and services that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and services and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because they have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could require us to reduce our prices, resulting in fewer customer orders, and loss of market share. We cannot assure that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would face material adverse effects. 15 Cost containment measures that are prevalent in the healthcare industry may result in lower margins. The health care market accounts for most of the demand for medical disposables products. The health care market was typified in recent years by strict cost containment measures imposed by governmental agencies, private insurers and other “third party” payers of medical costs. In response to these economic pressures, virtually all segments of the health care market have become extremely cost sensitive and in many cases hospitals and other health care providers have become affiliated with purchasing consortiums that obtain large quantities of needed products and thus can sell at much lower cost. These factors in combination have hindered suppliers and manufacturers like us who may not be able to supply the large quantities sought by the purchasing consortiums or who are unable to respond to the need for lower product pricing. Our failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could impair our operations and reduce our market share. In China, medical sanitary materials and dressings, including medical gauzes, absorbent cottons, bandages and disposable surgical suits, are supervised as medical devices and are administered by the Department of Medical Device of State Drug Administration of China. The technology and specifications of these types of products must conform to and comply with Regulations for the Supervision and Administration of Medical Devices of China and the relevant Chinese laws and standards. In addition, since we sell our products in the international markets, our products are subject to regulations imposed by various governmental agencies in the markets where our products are sold. For example, certain of our products exported to the U.S. must be listed with FDA. All our products exported to EU countries must have the CE certificate. We also need a Certificate of Foreign Manufacture for the Japanese market. These layers of regulation cause delays in the distribution of our products and may require us to incur operating costs resulting from the need to obtain approvals and clearances from regulators. As to date, we have reached the applicable standards and obtained the required certificates in the markets mentioned above. Our margins are reduced when we sell our products to customers through a buying group. A trend in our industry is the use of buying groups by customers. These buying groups aggregate the demand of several different customers and then buy products in bulk at lower prices than any of the customers would be able to obtain individually. We have only limited production capacity. This makes it difficult for us to meet the often large demand for our products from buying groups that represent overseas customers in developed countries. A single order of one kind of product from a top 500 multinational buyer could require the full manufacturing capacity of one of our plants. Although we have expanded our manufacturing capacity, our capacity is still not large enough to meet the demands of these clients. As a result, we may lose business to other manufacturers of our products who have more manufacturing capacity than we do. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm the Company and its operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the Chinese government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This has an unknown effect on our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: • Level of government involvement in the economy; • Control of foreign exchange; • Methods of allocating resources; • Balance of payments position; • International trade restrictions; and • International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. 16 Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your ability to legally protect your investment could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China has only recently permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its economic policies and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and widely fluctuating rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various austerity measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi, U.S. dollars, and Euro, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between other currencies and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated, such as Euro, British pound, Austrilian dollars, and etc. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 17 RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “WMDG.OB”. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ Stock Market. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” as an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of November 27, 2008, the closing price for our common stock was $0.90. As a “penny stock”, our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the “Penny Stock Rule.” This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”, generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure also is required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Jianquan Li and his wife Ping Tse own 80.68% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, they possess significant influence, giving them the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. Their ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 