ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of incurring significant net losses and our future profitability is not assured. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, we incurred a net loss of $23.7 million, $138.8 million, and $80.9 million, respectively. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties and we cannot assure you that we will not continue to experience net losses for the foreseeable future. If we are not able to increase revenue and reduce our costs, we may not be able to achieve profitability. Negative worldwide economic conditions could continue to result in a decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our operating costs, which could continue to adversely affect our business and operating results. If the recent worldwide economic downturn continues, many of our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. In addition, several of our customers rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. If the negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, orders for our products may decrease, which would result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These events could result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of opera tions, and financial condition. Our future revenue is inherently unpredictable. As a result, our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period, and we may fail to meet the expectations of our analysts and/or investors, which may cause volatility in our stock price and may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated substantially in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause our quarterly or annual operating results to fluctuate include: - market acceptance of our products; - market demand for the products and services provided by our customers; - disruptions or delays in our manufacturing processes or in our supply of raw materials or product components; - changes in the timing and size of orders by our customers; - cancellations or postponements of previously placed orders; - reductions in prices for our products or increases in the costs of our raw materials; - the introduction of new products and manufacturing processes; - fluctuations in manufacturing yields; - the emergence of new industry standards; - failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements; - the loss or gain of important customers; - product obsolescence; - the amount of research and development expenses associated with new product introductions; - the continuation or worsening of the current global economic slowdown; - economic conditions in various geographic areas where we or our customers do business; - acts of terrorism or violence and international conflicts or crises; - other conditions affecting the timing of customer orders; - a downturn in the markets for our customers’ products, particularly the telecommunications components markets; - significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers; - intellectual property disputes; - results of joint venture activities; - loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers; and - the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the limited lead times with which several of our customers order our products restrict our ability to forecast revenue. We may also experience a delay in generating or recognizing revenue for a number of reasons. For example, orders at the beginning of each quarter typically represent a small percentage of expected revenue for that quarter and are generally cancelable at any time. We depend on obtaining orders during each quarter for shipment in that quarter to achieve our revenue objectives. Failure to ship these products by the end of a quarter may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the foregoing factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be solely relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our ability to achieve operational and material cost reductions and to realize production efficiencies for our operations is critical to our ability to achieve long-term profitability. We have implemented a number of operational and material cost reductions and productivity improvement initiatives, which are intended to reduce our expense structure at both the cost of goods sold and the operating expense levels. Cost reduction initiatives often involve facility consolidation and re-design of our products, which requires our customers to accept and qualify the new designs, potentially creating a competitive disadvantage for our products. These initiatives can be time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and costly in the short-term. Successfully implementing these and other cost-reduction initiatives throughout our operations is critical to our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability. However, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will be successful in cr eating profit margins sufficient to sustain our current operating structure and business. Financial markets worldwide have since 2008 experienced an unprecedented crisis which may have a continuing materially adverse impact on the Company, our customers, and our suppliers. Financial markets have recently experienced an unprecedented financial crisis worldwide, affecting both debt and equity markets, which has substantially limited the amount of financing available to all companies, including companies with substantially greater resources, better credit ratings and more successful operating histories than us. It is impossible to predict how long the impact of this crisis will last or how it will be resolved. It may, however, have a materially adverse affect on the Company for a number of reasons, such as: - Our historic lack of profitability has caused us to consume cash, through acquisitions, operations and as a result of the research and development and capital expenditures necessary to expand the markets in which we operate (particularly the terrestrial solar market), as discussed in more detail below. We may be unable to acquire the cash necessary to finance these activities from either the debt or the equity markets and as a result we may be unable to continue operating. - Our fiber optics products are sold principally to large publicly held companies which are also dependent on the public debt and equity markets. Our customers may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to continue their own operations. - The market for the products of our fiber optics customers, into which our fiber optics products are incorporated, is dependent on capital spending from telecommunications and data communications companies, which may also be adversely affected by the lack of available financing. - The market for our space solar cells may also be adversely affected by the worldwide financial crisis, because the market for commercial satellites depends on capital spending by telecommunications companies (who are dependent on the capital markets, as described above), and the market for military satellites depends on resources allocated for military intelligence spending, which may also be restricted as a result of the financial crisis. - The market for our terrestrial solar products is dependent on the availability of project financing for photovoltaic projects, which may no longer be available, and is also largely dependent on government support of various types, such as investment tax credits, which may no longer be available as governments allocate scarce resources to dealing with the financial crisis. - A reduction in our sales will adversely affect our ability to draw on our existing line of credit because that line of credit is largely dependent on the level of our accounts receivable. - Negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability make it difficult for us, our customers, and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to produce excess products which could depress product prices, increase our inventory carrying costs, and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or materials used in our products, which could in turn result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. 17 Table of Contents - Negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. We could suffer significant losses if customers fail to pay us, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and is likely to continue to experience significant volatility in the future. This volatility may impair our ability to finance strategic transactions with our stock and otherwise harm our business The closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $1.72 per share to a low of $0.71 per share during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. As of January 7, 2011 the closing price of our common stock was $1.23. Our stock price is likely to experience significant volatility in the future as a result of numerous factors outside our control. Significant declines in our stock price may interfere with our ability to raise additional funds through equity financing or to finance strategic transactions with our stock. A significant adverse change in the market value of the Company’s common stock could also trigger an interim goodwill impairment test that may result in a non-cash impairment charge. We have historically used equity incentive compensation as part of our overall compe nsation arrangements. The effectiveness of equity incentive compensation in retaining key employees may be adversely impacted by volatility in our stock price. In addition, there may be increased risk of securities litigation following periods of fluctuations in our stock price. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. These and other consequences of volatility in our stock price which could be exacerbated by the recent worldwide financial crisis could have the effect of diverting management’s attention and could materially harm our business. We have significant liquidity and capital requirements and may require additional capital in the future. If we are unable to obtain the additional capital necessary to meet our needs, our business may be adversely affected. Historically, the Company has consumed cash from operations. We have managed our liquidity situation through a series of cost reduction initiatives, capital markets transactions and the sale of assets. We currently have approximately $34.9 million in working capital as of September 30, 2010. On October 1, 2009, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with Commerce Court Small Cap Value Fund, Ltd. (“Commerce Court”) whereby Commerce Court has committed, upon issuance of a draw-down request by the Company, to purchase up to $25 million worth of our common stock over a two year period. On March 18, 2010, the Company received $2.0 million from the sale of 1,870,042 shares of its common stock to Commerce Court pursuant to the terms of the Common Stock Purchase Agreement at an average price of approximately $1.07 per share. Our agreement with Commerce Court is currently based on the use of a Registration Statement on Form S-3. Because of our ineligibility to use Form S-3, we are currently in discussions with Commerce Court regarding the use of a Registration Statement on Form S - -1 in connection with the agreement, which, if we are successful in having a Form S-1 declared effective, would make the financing under the agreement available during the period we are not eligible to use Form S-3. On November 11, 2010, the Company entered into a Credit and Security Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank National Association. The Loan Agreement provides the Company with a three-year revolving credit facility of up to $35 million that can be used for working capital requirements, letters of credit, and other general corporate purposes. The credit facility is secured by substantially all of the Company’s assets and is subject to a borrowing base formula based on the Company’s eligible accounts receivable and inventory accounts, which is in the process of being finalized. The Company expects at least 40% of the total amount of credit under the Loan Agreement to be available for use based on the borrowing base formula during fiscal year 2011. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants, including among other things minimum tangible net worth and EBITDA covenants and limitations on liens and certain additional indebtedness and guarantees. The Loan Agreement also contains certain events of default, including a subjective acceleration clause. Under this clause, Wells Fargo may declare an event of default if it believes in good faith that the Company’s ability to pay all or any portion of its indebtedness with Wells Fargo or to perform any of its material obligations under the Loan Agreement has been impaired, or if it believes in good faith that there has been a material adverse change in the business or financial condition of the Company. If an event of default is not cu red within the grace period (if applicable), then Wells Fargo may, among other things, accelerate repayment of amounts borrowed under the Loan Agreement, cease making advances under the Loan Agreement or take possession of the Company’s assets that secure its obligations under the Loan Agreement. The Company does not anticipate at this time any change in the business or financial condition of the Company that could be deemed a material adverse change by Wells Fargo. 18 Table of Contents On November 12, 2010, the Company borrowed $5.6 million under the Loan Agreement and used the proceeds to repay the entire $5.2 million debt outstanding under the Company’s Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2008, with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Prior Credit Agreement”). Afterwards, the Company terminated the Prior Credit Agreement. The guarantees provided by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries under the Prior Credit Agreement terminated simultaneously with the Prior Credit Agreement. The Company did not incur any penalties in connection with the termination of the Prior Credit Agreement. We believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, together with the cash expected to be generated from operations and amounts expected to be available under our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank will provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our cash requirements for operations, working capital, and capital expenditures for the next 12 months. However, in the event of unforeseen circumstances, unfavorable market or economic developments, unfavorable results from operations, or if Wells Fargo declares an event of default on the credit facility, the Company may have to raise additional funds by any one or a combination of the following: issuing equity, debt or convertible debt, or selling certain product lines and/or portions of our business. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A significant contraction in the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital if or when it is required, especially if the Company experiences negative operating results. As a result of the delays in filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, we are currently ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3. As a result it may be more difficult and costly for us to access the capital markets until we regain Form S-3 eligibility. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. The market for our terrestrial solar power products for utility-scale applications may take time to develop, is rapidly changing and extremely price-sensitive, and involves issues with which the Company has little experience. We have invested and intend to continue investing significant resources in the adaptation of our high-efficiency compound semiconductor-based GaAs solar cell products for terrestrial applications, including the sale of both CPV components and systems. This investment carries with it significant risk. Factors such as changes in energy prices or the development of new and efficient alternative energy technologies could limit growth in, or reduce the market for, our terrestrial solar power products. In addition, we experienced difficulties in applying our space-based solar products to terrestrial applications. We may experience further difficulties in the future in competing with new and emerging terrestrial solar power products, which we have determined to be extremely price sensitive and ra pidly changing. There can be no assurance that our bids on solar power installations will be accepted, that we will win any of these bids, that our CPV systems will be qualified for these projects, or that governments will continue to offer electric supply contracts and other incentives that will make our products economically viable. If our terrestrial solar power cell products are not cost competitive or accepted by the market, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Successful deployment of our solar power systems may require us to assume roles with respect to solar power projects with which we have limited or no experience (such as acting as general contractor) and which may expose us to certain financial risks (such as cost overruns and performance guaranties) which we may not have the expertise to properly evaluate or manage. In addition, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense; if we are subject to warranty and product liability claims, such claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. Our Photovoltaics segment recognizes certain contract revenue on a “percentage-of-completion” basis and upon the achievement of contractual milestones. Any delay or cancellation of a project could adversely affect our business. Our Photovoltaics segment recognizes certain revenue on a “percentage-of-completion” basis and, as a result, revenue from this segment is driven by the performance of our contractual obligations. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for revenue recognition is inherently subjective because it relies on management estimates of total project cost as a basis for recognizing revenue and profit. Accordingly, revenue and profit we have recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are potentially subject to adjustments in subsequent periods based on refinements in estimated costs of project completion that could materially impact our future revenue and profit. As with any project-related business, there is the potential for delays within, or cancellation of, any particular customer project. Variation of project timelines and estimates may impact our ability to recognize revenue in a particular period. Moreover, incurring penalties involving the return of the contract price to the customer for failure to timely install one project could negatively impact our ability to continue to recognize revenue on a “percentage-of-completion” basis generally for other projects. In addition, certain customer contracts may include payment milestones due at specified points during a project. Because our Photovoltaics segment usually must invest substantial time and incur significant expense in advance of achieving milestones and receiving payment, failure to achieve such milestones could adversely a ffect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents As supply of polysilicon increases, the corresponding increase in the global supply of silicon-based solar cells and panels may cause substantial downward pressure on the prices of our terrestrial solar power products, resulting in lower revenues. As additional polysilicon becomes available, we expect solar panel production globally to increase. Decreases in polysilicon pricing and increases in silicon-based solar panel production could each result in substantial downward pressure on the price of solar cells and panels, including our terrestrial solar power products. Such price reductions could have a negative impact on our revenue, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of any one of these customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our top five customers accounted for 44%, 43%, and 46%, respectively, of our total annual consolidated revenue. There can be no assurance that we will continue to achieve historical levels of sales of our products to our largest customers. Even though our customer base is expected to increase and our revenue streams to diversify, a substantial portion of our net revenues could continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers. Our agreements with these customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. The loss of or a reduction in sales to one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Long-term, firm commitment supply agreements could result in insufficient or excess inventory or place us at a competitive disadvantage. We manufacture our products utilizing materials, components, and services provided by third parties. We seek to obtain a lower cost of inventory by negotiating multi-year, binding contractual commitments directly with our suppliers. Under such agreements, we may be required to purchase a specified quantity of products or use a certain amount of services, which is often over a period of twelve months or more. We also may be required to make substantial prepayments or issue secured letters of credit to these suppliers against future deliveries. These contractual commitments, or any other “take or pay” agreement we enter into, allows the supplier to invoice us for the full purchase price of product or services that we are under contract for, whether or not we actually order the required volume or services. If for any reason we fa il to order the required volume or services, the resulting monetary damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We do not obtain contracts or commitments from customers for all of our products manufactured with materials purchased under such firm commitment contracts. Instead, we rely on our long-term internal forecasts to determine the timing of our production schedules and the volume and mix of products to be manufactured. The level and timing of orders placed by customers may vary for many reasons. As a result, at any particular time, we may have insufficient or excess inventory, which could render us unable to fulfill customer orders or increase our cost of production. This would place us at a competitive disadvantage, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Long-term contractual commitments also expose us to specific counter-party risk, which can be magnified when dealing with suppliers without a long, stable production and financial history. For example, if one or more of our contractual counterparties is unable or unwilling to provide us with the contracted amount of product, we could be required to attempt to obtain product in the open market, which could be unavailable at that time, or only available at prices in excess of our contracted prices. In addition, in the event any such supplier experiences financial difficulties, it may be difficult or impossible, or may require substantial time and expense, for us to recover any or all of our prepayments. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our operating results could be harmed if we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of sufficient components of acceptable quality from sole or limited sources of materials, components, or services, or if the prices of components for which we do not have alternative sources increase. We currently obtain some materials, components, and services used in our products from limited or single sources. We generally do not carry significant inventories of any raw materials. Because we often do not account for a significant part of our suppliers’ businesses, we may not have access to sufficient capacity from these suppliers in periods of high demand. In addition, since we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers, we risk serious disruption to our operations if an important supplier terminates product lines, changes business focus, or goes out of business. Because some of these suppliers are located overseas, we may be faced with higher costs of purchasing these materials if the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies. If we were to change any of our limited or sole source su ppliers, we would be required to re-qualify each new supplier. Re-qualification could prevent or delay product shipments that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our reliance on these suppliers may materially adversely affect our production if the components vary in quality or quantity. If we are unable to obtain timely deliveries of sufficient components of acceptable quality or if the prices of components for which we do not have alternative sources increase, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents If our contract manufacturers fail to deliver qualified quality products at reasonable prices and on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers located outside of the U.S. as a less-expensive alternative to performing our own manufacturing of certain products. Contract manufacturers in Asia currently manufacture a significant portion of our high-volume fiber optics products. We supply inventory to our contract manufacturers and we bear the risk of loss, theft, or damage to our inventory while it is held in their facilities. If these contract manufacturers do not fulfill their obligations to us, or if we do not properly manage these relationships and the transition of production to these contract manufacturers, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our ability to oversee and control quality and delivery schedules. The use of contract manufacturers located outside of the U.S. also subjects us to the following additional risks that could significantly impair our ability to source our contract manufacturing requirements internationally, including: - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; - legal uncertainties regarding liability, tariffs, and other trade barriers; - inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries; - greater incidence of shipping delays; - greater difficulty in overseeing manufacturing operations; - greater difficulty in hiring talent needed to oversee manufacturing operations; - potential political and economic instability; - potential adverse actions by the U.S. government pursuant to its stated intention to reduce the loss of U.S. jobs; and - the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the H1N1 influenza virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”), or the avian flu, which could result in travel restrictions or the closure of the facilities of our contract manufacturers. Any of these factors could significantly impair our ability to source our contract manufacturing requirements internationally. Prior to our customers accepting products manufactured at our contract manufacturers, they must re-qualify the product and manufacturing processes. The qualification process can be lengthy and expensive, with no guarantee that any particular product qualification process will lead to profitable product sales. The qualification process determines whether the product manufactured at our contract manufacturer achieves our customers’ quality, performance, and reliability standards. Our expectations as to the time periods required to qualify a product line and ship products in volumes to our customers may be erroneous. Delays in qualification can impair our expected timing of the transfer of a product line to our contract manufacturer and may impair our expected amount of sales of the affected products. Any of these uncertainties could m aterially adversely affect our operating results and customer relationships. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological change, our products may not be competitive. We compete in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements, evolving industry standards, continuous improvement in products and the use of our existing products in new applications. We may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements at the same rate as or faster than our competitors, or to license the technology from third parties that is necessary for our products. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: - changing product specifications and customer requirements; - unanticipated engineering complexities; - expense reduction measures we have implemented and others we may implement; - difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; and - difficulties in allocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely, cost effective or repeatable basis. Our future performance will depend on our successful development and introduction of, as well as market acceptance of, new and enhanced products that address market changes as well as current and potential customer requirements and our ability to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in achieving certain research, development and engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. If we a re unable to develop, manufacture, market, or support new or enhanced products successfully, or incur budget overruns or delays in our research and development efforts, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Spending to develop and improve our technology may negatively impact our financial results. We may need to increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to attempt to improve our existing technology and develop new technology. Increasing our investments in research and development of technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. The competitive and rapidly evolving nature of our industries has in the past resulted and is likely in the future to result in reductions in our product prices and periods of reduced demand for our products. We face substantial competition in each of our reporting segments from a number of companies, many of which have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, and technical resources than we do. Larger-sized competitors often spend more on research and development, which could give those competitors an advantage in meeting customer demands and introducing technologically innovative products before we do. We expect that existing and new competitors will continue to improve the design of their existing products and will introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. The introduction of new products and more efficient production of existing products by our competitors have resulted and are likely in the future to result in price reductions, increases in expenses, and reduced demand for our products. In addition, some of our competitors may be willing to provide their products at lower prices, accept a lower profit margin, or spend more capital in order to obtain or retain business. Competitive pressures have required us to reduce the prices of some of our products. These competitive forces could diminish our market share and gross margins, resulting in a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. New competitors may also enter our markets, including some of our current and potential customers who may attempt to integrate their operations by producing their own components and subsystems or acquiring one of our competitors, thereby reducing demand for our products. In addition, rapid product development cycles, increasing price competition due to maturation of technologies, the emergence of new competitors in Asia with lower cost structures, and industry consolidation resulting in competitors with greater financial, marketing, and technical resources could result in lower prices or reduced demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Expected and actual introductions of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products and may cause our products to become obsolete. A slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products due to a slowdown in demand or in anticipation of a new product release, or if there is any delay in development or introduction of our new products or enhancements of our products, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our products are difficult to manufacture. Our production could be disrupted and our results could suffer if our production yields are low as a result of manufacturing difficulties. We manufacture many of our wafers and devices in our own production facilities. Difficulties in the production process, such as contamination, raw material quality issues, human error, or equipment failure, could cause a substantial percentage of wafers and devices to be nonfunctional. Lower-than-expected production yields may delay shipments or result in unexpected levels of warranty claims, either of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields in the past, particularly in pre-production and upon initial commencement of full production volumes, which have adversely affected our gross margins. Because the majority of our manufacturing costs are fixed, achieving planned production yields is critical to our results of operations. Also, we have substantial ri sk of interruption in manufacturing resulting from fire, natural disaster, equipment failures, or similar events, because we manufacture many of our products in a single facility, and do not have back-up facilities available for manufacturing these products. We could also incur significant costs to repair and/or replace products that are defective and in some cases costly product redesigns and/or rework may be required to correct a defect. Additionally, any defect could adversely affect our reputation and result in the loss of future orders. 22 Table of Contents Some of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our products have been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors, and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to, or a breakdown of our manufacturing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls, and product liability. We may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that may lead to increased expenses in order to defend or settle such claims. Such warranty claims may arise in areas such as terrestrial solar components or systems where our operating experience is limited. We maintain product liability insurance, but such insurance is subject to significant deductibles and there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against any or all such claims. We may incur costs and expenses relating to a recall of one of our customers’ products containing one of our products. The process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources, and we may incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers, and harm to our reputation. Payments and expenses in connection with warranty and product liability claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face lengthy sales and qualification cycles for our new products and, in many cases, must invest a substantial amount of time and money before we receive orders. Most of our products are tested by current and potential customers to determine whether they meet customer or industry specifications. The length of the qualification process, which can span a year or more, varies substantially by product and customer and, thus, can cause our results of operations to be unpredictable. During a given qualification period, we invest significant resources and allocate substantial production capacity to manufacture these new products prior to any commitment to purchase by customers. In addition, it is difficult to obtain new customers during the qualification period as customers are reluctant to expend the resources necessary to qualify a new supplier if they have one or more existing qualified sources. If we are unable to meet applicable specifications or do not receive sufficient orders to profit ably use our allocated production capacity, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our historical and future budgets for operating expenses, capital expenditures, operating leases, and service contracts are based upon our assumptions as to the future market acceptance of our products. Because of the lengthy lead times required for product development and the changes in technology that typically occur while a product is being developed, it is difficult to accurately estimate customer demand for any given product. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of customer demand, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Shifts in industry-wide demands and inventories could result in significant inventory write-downs. The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage production and inventory levels closely. We evaluate our ending inventories on a quarterly basis for excess quantities, impairment of value, and obsolescence. This evaluation includes analysis of sales levels by product and projections of future demand based upon input received from our customers, sales team, and management. If inventories on hand are in excess of demand, or if they are greater than 12-months old, appropriate reserves may be recorded. In addition, we write off inventories that are considered obsolete based upon changes in customer demand, manufacturing process changes that result in existing inventory obsolescence, or new product introduc tions, which eliminate demand for existing products. Remaining inventory balances are adjusted to approximate the lower of our manufacturing cost or market value. If future demand or market conditions are less favorable than our estimates, inventory write-downs may be required. We cannot assure investors that obsolete or excess inventories, which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed, will not affect us beyond the inventory charges that we have already taken. The types of sales contracts which we use in the markets which we serve subject us to unique risks in each of those markets. In our Fiber Optics reporting segment, we generally do not have long-term supply contracts with our customers and we typically sell our products pursuant to purchase orders with short lead times, and even where we do have supply contracts, our customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum amount of our products. As a result, our customers could stop purchasing our products at any time and we must fulfill orders in a timely manner to keep our customers. 23 Table of Contents Risks associated with the absence of long-term purchase commitments with our customers include the following: - our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty; - our customers may purchase products from our competitors; and, - our customers are not required to make minimum purchases. These risks are increased by the fact that our customers in this market are large sophisticated companies which have considerable purchasing power and control over their suppliers. In the Fiber Optics market, we generally sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders, which often have extremely short lead times. If we are unable to fulfill these orders in a timely manner, it is likely that we will lose sales and customers. In addition, we sell some of our products to the U.S. government and related entities. These contracts are generally subject to termination for convenience provisions and may be cancelled at any time. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. In contrast, in our Photovoltaics reporting segment, we generally enter into long-term firm fixed-price contracts. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates we used to determine the contract price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, schedule, and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then our cost to perform the work could increase or our price could be reduced, which would adversely affect our financial condition. These programs have risk for reach-forward losses if our estimated costs exceed our estimated price. Fixed-price development work inherently has more uncertainty than production contracts and, therefore, more variability in estimates of the cost to complete the work. Many of these development programs have very complex designs. As technical or quality issues arise, we may experience schedule delays and adverse cost impacts, which could increase our estimated cost to perform the work or reduce our estimated price, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition. Some fixed-price development contracts include initial production units in their scope of work. Successful performance of these contracts depends on our ability to meet production specifications and delivery rates. If we are unable to perform and deliver to contract requirements, our contract price could be reduced through the incorporation of liquidated damages, termination of the contract for default, or other financially significant consequences. Management uses its best judgment to estimate the cost to perform the work and the price we will eventually be paid on fixed-price development programs. While we believe the cost and price estimates incorporated in the financial statements are appropriate, future events could result in either favorable or unfavorable adjustments to those estimates. The risk of fixed price contracts in the photovoltaics market is increased by the new and rapidly changing nature of the terrestrial photovoltaics market and the Company’s limited experience in that market. We are a party to several U.S. government contracts, which are subject to unique risks. We intend to continue our policy of selectively pursuing contract research, product development, and market development programs funded by various agencies of the U.S. federal and state governments to complement and enhance our own resources. Depending on the type of contract, funding from government grants is either recorded as revenue or as an offset to our research and development expense. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. We have had government contracts modified, curtailed or terminated in the past and we expect this will continue to happen from time to time. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. The termination of funding for a U.S. government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. The U.S. government may modify, curtail, or terminate its contracts and subcontracts with us without prior notice, and at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. A reduction or discontinuance of these programs or of our participation in these programs would increase our research and development expenses, which would adversely affect our profitability and could impair our ability to develop our solar power products and services. Modification, curtailment, or termination of our major programs or contracts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. government agencies. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We have recorded contract revenue based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be required to reduce our revenue or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. governme nt. We have been audited in the past by the U.S. government and expect that we will be in the future. Our business is subject to potential U.S. government review. We are sometimes subject to certain U.S. government reviews of our business practices due to our participation in government contracts. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have an adverse effect on our reputation and ability to secure future U.S. government contracts. We have significant international sales, which expose us to additional risks and uncertainties For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 40%, 38%, and 44%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenue, with revenue assigned to geographic regions based on our customers’ billing address. Sales to customers in Asia represent the majority of our international sales. We believe that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue as we seek international expansion opportunities. Because of this, the following international commercial risks may materially adversely affect our revenue: - political and economic instability or changes in U.S. government policy with respect to these foreign countries may inhibit export of our devices and limit potential customers’ access to U.S. dollars in a country or region in which those potential customers are located; - we may experience difficulties in the timeliness of collection of foreign accounts receivable and be forced to write off these receivables; - tariffs and other barriers may make our devices less cost competitive; - the laws of certain foreign countries may not adequately protect our trade secrets and intellectual property or may be burdensome to comply with; - potentially adverse tax consequences to our customers may damage our cost competitiveness; - currency fluctuations may make our products less cost competitive, affecting overseas demand for our products or otherwise adversely affecting our business; and - language and other cultural barriers may require us to expend additional resources competing in foreign markets or hinder our ability to effectively compete. In addition, we may be exposed to additional legal risks under the laws of both the countries in which we operate and in the United States, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are increasing operations in China, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in China. EMCORE Hong Kong, Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of EMCORE Corporation, has a manufacturing facility in Langfang, China. Our Chinese subsidiary, Langfang EMCORE Optoelectronics Co. Ltd., is located approximately 20 miles southeast of Beijing and currently occupies a space of 48,000 square feet with a Class-10,000 clean room for optoelectronic device packaging. Another 40,000 square feet is available for future expansion. We have begun the transfer of our most cost sensitive optoelectronic devices to this facility. This facility, along with a strategic alignment with our existing contract-manufacturing partners, should enable us to improve our cost structure and gross margins across product lines. We expect to develop and provide improved service to our global customers by having a local presence in Asia.< /font> 25 Table of Contents Our China-based activities, including those of our Suncore joint venture, are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than those faced by our other operations. In particular, the political, legal, and economic climate in China (both at the national and regional levels) is extremely volatile and unpredictable. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, such as those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property, and other matters, which laws and regulations remain highly underdeveloped and subject to change for political or other reasons, with little or no prior notice. Moreover, the enforceability of applicable existing Chinese laws and regulations is uncertain. In addition, w e may not obtain the requisite legal permits to continue to operate in China and costs or operational limitations may be imposed in connection with obtaining and complying with such permits. Our business could be materially harmed by any changes in the political, legal, or economic climate in China or the inability to enforce applicable Chinese laws and regulations. As a result of a government order to ration power for industrial use, operations in our China facility may be subject to possible interruptions or shutdowns, adversely affecting our ability to complete manufacturing commitments on a timely basis. If we are required to make significant investments in generating capacity to sustain uninterrupted operations at our facility, we may not realize the reductions in costs anticipated from our expansion in China. We intend to export the majority of the products manufactured at our facilities in China. Accordingly, upon application to and approval by the relevant governmental authorities, we will not be subject to certain Chinese taxes and are exempt from customs duty assessment on imported components or materials when the finished products are exported from China. We are, however, required to pay income taxes in China, subject to certain tax relief. As the Chinese trade regulations are in a state of flux, we may become subject to other forms of taxation and duty assessments in China or may be required to pay for export license fees in the future. In the event that we become subject to any increased taxes or new forms of taxation imposed by authorities in China, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The success of our Suncore joint venture will depend on our joint venture partner’s and our ability to complete the establishment of the joint venture entity in China and meet our financial and other obligations to the joint venture entity. Any failure to complete the establishment and capitalization of the joint venture entity could impede or prevent us from successfully implementing our joint venture agreement. Our agreement with San’an Optoelectronics Co., Ltd. for the creation of the Suncore joint venture in China provides for the joint venture parties to cooperate in completing the regulatory procedures necessary to establish the joint venture entity in China, to make capital contributions, and to provide other financial and technical support to the joint venture entity over the term of the agreement. Any failure by us or our joint venture partner to meet these requirements could impede our ability to, or prevent us from, successfully implementing the joint venture agreement. If we are not successful in implementing the joint venture agreement, we may be delayed in achieving our strategic goals associated with the joint venture, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely a ffected. If the Suncore joint venture entity is established pursuant to our joint venture agreement, the successful implementation of the joint venture will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties that may have an adverse material effect on the joint venture’s performance. Even if the joint venture entity is established and capitalized pursuant to the terms of our joint venture agreement, the implementation of the joint venture transaction will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties. The success of the joint venture will depend in part on its ability to compete in the emerging renewable energy markets in China and other regions, which will require the joint venture entity to keep pace with rapidly developing technologies and newly emerging competitors. In addition, the success of the joint venture will depend on its ability to retain key personnel and successfully penetrate the markets for its products. Because we will share ownership and management of the joint venture, the management of these risks will not be entirely within our control. We will lose sales if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export our products. Exports of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) administered by the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination and the identity of the end user. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) regulations administered by the Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls require a license. Most of our fiber o ptics products, terrestrial solar power products, and commercially available solar cell space power products are subject to EAR; however, only certain of our fiber optics products and solar cell space power products with an efficiency rating above 31% are currently subject to ITAR. 26 Table of Contents Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for product shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on foreign competitors may adversely affect our competitive position. Protecting our trade secrets and obtaining patent protection is critical to our ability to effectively compete. Our success and competitive position depend on protecting our trade secrets and other intellectual property. Our strategy is to rely on trade secrets and patents to protect our manufacturing and sales processes and products. Reliance on trade secrets is only an effective business practice if trade secrets remain undisclosed and a proprietary product or process is not reverse engineered or independently developed. We take measures to protect our trade secrets, including executing non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, and joint venture partners. If parties breach these agreements, the measures we take are not properly implemented, or if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtai n necessary legal protection. Disclosure of our trade secrets or reverse engineering of our proprietary products, processes, or devices could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our industries are characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received, and may receive in the future; notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights and licensing offers to commercialize third party patent rights. There can be no assurance that: - infringement claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted against us or that such claims will not be successful; - future assertions will not result in an injunction against the sale of infringing products, which could significantly impair our business and results of operations; - any patent owned or licensed by us will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged; or - we will not be required to obtain licenses, the expense of which may adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign jurisdictions. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources, may be necessary to defend our rights or defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. In certain circumstances, our intellectual property rights associated with government contracts may be limited. Protection of the intellectual property owned or licensed to us may require us to initiate litigation, which can be an extremely expensive protracted procedure with an uncertain outcome. The availability of financial resources may limit the Company’s ability to commence or defend such litigation. We believe that the unfavorable ruling by the U.S. International Trade Commission (“ITC”) will have a negative impact on our POD Fiber Optics product line. While the Company is currently working on qualifying a new product that we believe would not be subject to the ITC ruling, we have no assurance that the Company will be successful in this process. Additionally, the time to qualify new products with customers can take up to several quarters, or longer. See the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Footnote 14 – “Commitments and Contingencies – Avago-related Litigation” for additional disclosure regarding the ITC ruling. 27 Table of Contents Failure to comply with environmental and safety regulations, resulting in improper handling of hazardous raw materials used in our manufacturing processes or waste product generated there from, could result in costly remediation fees, penalties, or damages. We are subject to laws and regulations and must obtain certain permits and licenses relating to the use of hazardous materials. Our production activities involve the use of certain hazardous raw materials, including, but not limited to, ammonia, gallium, phosphine, and arsine. If our control systems are unsuccessful in preventing a release of these materials into the environment or other adverse environmental conditions or human exposure occurs, we could experience interruptions in our operations and incur substantial remediation and other costs or liabilities. In addition, certain foreign laws and regulations place restrictions on the concentration of certain hazardous materials, including, but not limited to, lead, mercury, and cadmium, in our products. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to futu re liabilities or result in the limitation or suspension of the sale or production of our products. These regulations include the European Union’s (“EU”) Restrictions on Hazardous Substances and Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Failure to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may limit our ability to export products to the EU and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the Department of Homeland Security has commenced a program to evaluate the security of certain chemicals which may be of interest to terrorists, including chemicals utilized by the Company. This evaluation may lead to regulations or restrictions affecting the Company’s ability to utilize these chemicals or the costs of doing so. In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations. In addition, in the last few years, there has been increased media scrutiny and associated reports focusing on a potential link between working in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments and certain illnesses, primarily different types of cancers. Regulatory agencies and industry associations have begun to study the issue to see if any actual correlation exists. Because we utilize clean rooms, we may become subject to liability c laims. These reports may also affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. If we were found to be in violation of environmental and safety regulations laws or noncompliance with industry initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines or liability to our customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. A failure to attract and retain managerial, technical, and other key personnel could reduce our revenue and our operational effectiveness. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain certain key personnel, including scientific, operational, financial, and managerial personnel. In addition, our technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. The competition for attracting and retaining key employees (especially scientists, technical personnel, financial personnel, and senior managers and executives) is intense. Because of this competition for skilled employees, we may be unable to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified employees in the future. If we are unable to retain our skilled employees and attract additional qualified employees to the extent necessary to keep up with our business demands and changes, our business, financial condition, a nd results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The risks involved in recruiting and retaining these key personnel may be increased by our lack of profitability, the volatility of our stock price, and the perceived affect of reductions in force and other cost reduction efforts which we have recently implemented. We are subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure. We rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. We are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, and other similar disruptions. Our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. Any system failure, accident, or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. In addition, implementation of new software programs, including the implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) program which the Company intends to install at one or more of the Company’s divisions during fiscal year 2011, may have adverse impact on the Company, including interruption of operations, loss of data, budget overruns and the consumption of management time and resources. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to remediate deficiencies in our current system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity securities. The Company is subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our brand, operating results, and the market value of our equity securities could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate and improve our internal controls. We have also been monitoring the effectiveness of these remediated measures. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. We intend to continue implementing and monitoring changes to our processes to improve internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity securities. Further, the impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers, which could harm our business. The additions of our manufacturing facility in China and acquisitions increase the burden on our systems and infrastructure, and impose additional risk to the ongoing effectiveness of our internal controls, disclosure controls, and procedures. Certain provisions of New Jersey law and our charter may make a takeover of the Company difficult even if such takeover could be beneficial to some of our shareholders. New Jersey law and our certificate of incorporation, as amended, contain certain provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders may consider in their best interests. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes. Directors are elected to serve staggered three-year terms and are not subject to removal except for cause by the vote of the holders of at least 80% of our capital stock. In addition, approval by the holders of 80% of our voting stock is required for certain business combinations unless these transactions meet certain fair price criteria and procedural requirements or are approved by two-thirds of our continuing directors. We may in the future adopt other measures that may have the effect of delaying or discouraging an unsolicited takeover, even if the takeover were at a premium price or fa vored by a majority of unaffiliated shareholders. Certain of these measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders and this could depress the price of our common stock. Acquisitions of other companies or investments in joint ventures with other companies could adversely affect our operating results, dilute our shareholders’ equity, or cause us to incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we are in the process of creating a joint venture and may acquire other companies or engage in other joint ventures in the future. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business or joint venture not performing as expected, including: - insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; - problems integrating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies, or products with the existing business and products; - diversion of management time and attention from the core business to the acquired business or joint venture; - potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales, and other personnel of the acquired business or joint venture; - difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired business, particularly where such customers or suppliers compete with us; - reliance upon joint ventures which we do not control; - subsequent impairment of the acquired assets, including intangible assets; and - assumption of liabilities including, but not limited to, lawsuits, tax examinations, warranty issues, etc. 29 Table of Contents We may decide that it is in our best interests to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures that are dilutive to earnings per share or that negatively impact margins as a whole. In addition, acquisitions or joint ventures could require investment of significant financial resources and require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our shareholders’ equity, or require us to incur additional indebtedness. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our consolidated results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform to U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our consolidated reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued authoritative guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities that may impact our accounting for future joint ventures or project companies. In the event that we are deemed the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, we may have to consolidate the assets, liabilities, and financial results of the joint venture. This could have an adverse impact on our financial position, gross margin, and operating results. Also, the SEC issued its long-anticipated proposed International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) roadmap outlining milestones that, if achieved, could lead to mandatory transition to IFRS for U.S. domestic registrants starting in 2014. IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Under the proposed roadmap, the Company could be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and the SEC will make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of IFRS for U.S. domestic registrants. Management is currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on the Company’s consolidated financ ial statements, and will continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could have a material adverse affect on our business. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and fires, particularly in California or in New Mexico, could unfavorably affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our facilities, the temporary closure of one or more of our facilities or those of our suppliers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, and delays in the delivery of goods. Public health issues, such as a potential H1N1 flu pandemic (swine flu), whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or customers, or have an adverse impact on custome r demand. As a result of any of these events, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers. Although we maintain business interruption insurance and other insurance intended to cover some or all of these risks, such insurance may be inadequate, whether because of coverage amount, policy limitations, the financial viability of the insurance companies issuing such policies, or other reasons. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 30 Table of Contents 