Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Although it is impossible to predict the likelihood of such occurrences or their effect on us, we routinely evaluate these risks and take appropriate actions to mitigate the risks where possible. However, there can be no assurance that an occurrence of any one or more of these events would not have a material adverse effect on our operations. 10 Table of Contents Further information is contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT; PATENTS We are engaged in research and development activities directed primarily toward the improvement of existing products and services, the design of specialized products to meet specific customer needs and the development of new products, processes and services. For information regarding the amounts of research and development expense in each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein. We have followed a policy of seeking patent and trademark protection both inside and outside the United States for products and methods that appear to have commercial significance. We believe our patents and trademarks to be adequate for the conduct of our business, and aggressively pursue protection of our patents against patent infringement worldwide. Although patent and trademark protection is important to our business and future prospects, we consider the reliability and quality of our products and the technical skills of our personnel to be more important. No single patent or trademark is considered to be critical to our business. SEASONALITY Our operations can be affected by seasonal weather patterns and natural phenomena, which can temporarily affect the delivery and performance of our products and services, as well as customer’s budgetary cycles for capital expenditures. The widespread geographic locations of our operations and the timing of seasonal events serve to reduce the impact of individual events. Examples of seasonal events which can impact our business include: • the severity and duration of the winter in North America can have a significant impact on gas storage levels and drilling activity for natural gas, • the timing and duration of the spring thaw in Canada directly affects activity levels due to road restrictions, • hurricanes can disrupt coastal and offshore operations, • severe weather during the winter months normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia, and • large export orders which tend to be sold in the second half of a calendar year. RAW MATERIALS We purchase various raw materials and component parts for use in manufacturing our products. The principal materials we purchase are steel alloys (including chromium and nickel), titanium, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds, printed circuit boards and other electronic components and hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks. These materials are generally available from multiple sources and could be subject to rising costs. We have not experienced significant shortages of these materials and normally do not carry inventories of such materials in excess of those reasonably required to meet our production schedules. We do not expect significant interruptions in supply, but there can be no assurance that there will be no price or supply issues over the long term. EMPLOYEES On December 31, 2007, we had approximately 35,800 employees, as compared with approximately 34,600 employees on December 31, 2006. Approximately 3,020 of these employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements or similar-type labor arrangements, of which the majority are outside the U.S. Based upon the geographic diversification of these employees, we believe any risk of loss from employee strikes or other collective actions would not be material to the conduct of our operations taken as a whole. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. 11 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table shows, as of February 21, 2008, the name of each of our executive officers, together with his age and all offices presently held. Name Age Chad C. Deaton 55 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 2008. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 to 2008. President and Chief Executive Officer of Hanover Compressor Company from 2002 to 2004. Senior Advisor to Schlumberger Oilfield Services from 1999 to 2001. Executive Vice President of Schlumberger from 1998 to 1999. Employed by the Company in 2004. Alan R. Crain 56 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since 2007. Vice President and General Counsel from 2000 to 2007. Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Crown, Cork & Seal Company, Inc. from 1999 to 2000. Vice President and General Counsel from 1996 to 1999, and Assistant General Counsel from 1988 to 1996, of Union Texas Petroleum Holdings, Inc. Employed by the Company in 2000. Peter A. Ragauss 50 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 2006. Segment Controller of Refining and Marketing for BP plc from 2003 to 2006. Mr. Ragauss joined BP plc in 1998 as Assistant to the Group Chief Executive until 2000 when he became Chief Executive Officer of Air BP. Vice President of Finance and Portfolio Management for Amoco Energy International immediately prior to its merger with BP in 1998. Vice President of Finance for El Paso Energy International from 1996 to 1998 and Vice President of Corporate Development for Tenneco Energy in 1996. Employed by the Company in 2006. David H. Barr 58 Group President of Completion and Production since 2007 and Vice President of the Company since 2000. Group President of Drilling and Evaluation from 2005 to 2007. President of Baker Atlas from 2000 to 2005. Vice President, Supply Chain Management, of Cooper Cameron from 1999 to 2000. Mr. Barr also held the following positions with the Company: Vice President, Business Process Development, from 1997 to 1998 and the following positions with Hughes Tool Company/Hughes Christensen: Vice President, Production and Technology, from 1994 to 1997; Vice President, Diamond Products, from 1993 to 1994; Vice President, Eastern Hemisphere Operations, from 1990 to 1993 and Vice President, North American Operations, from 1988 to 1990. Employed by the Company in 1972. Martin S. Craighead 48 Group President of Drilling and Evaluation since 2007 and Vice President of the Company since 2005. President of INTEQ from 2005 to 2007. President of Baker Atlas from February 2005 to August 2005. Vice President of Worldwide Operations for Baker Atlas from 2003 to 2005 and Vice President, Marketing and Business Development for Baker Atlas from 2001 to 2003; Region Manager for Baker Atlas in Latin America and Asia and Region Manager for E&P Solutions from 1995 to 2001. Employed by the Company in 1986. Didier Charreton 44 Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since 2007. Group Human Resources Director of Coats Plc, a global company engaged in the sewing thread and needlecrafts industry, from 2002 to 2007. Business Development of ID Applications for Gemplus S. A., a global company in the Smart Card industry, from 2000 to 2001. Various human resources positions at Schlumberger from 1989 to 2000. Employed by the Company in 2007. Christopher P. Beaver 50 Vice President of the Company and President of Baker Oil Tools since 2005. Vice President of Finance for Baker Petrolite from 2002 to 2005; Director of Finance and Controller at INTEQ from 1999 to 2002; Controller at Hughes Christensen from 1994 to 1999. Various accounting and finance positions at Hughes Christensen in the Eastern Hemisphere from 1985 to 1994. Employed by the Company in 1985. 12 Table of Contents Name Age Paul S. Butero 51 Vice President of the Company since 2005 and President of INTEQ since 2007. President of Baker Atlas from 2006 to 2007. President of Hughes Christensen from 2005 to 2006. Vice President, Marketing, of Hughes Christensen from 2001 to 2005 and as Region Manager for various Hughes Christensen areas (both in the United States and the Eastern Hemisphere) from 1989 to 2001. Employed by the Company in 1981. Stephen K. Ellison 49 Vice President of the Company and President of Baker Atlas since 2007. Vice President, Middle East, Asia Pacific Region for Baker Atlas from 2005 to 2007; Asia Pacific Region Manager, Baker Atlas from 2001 to 2005 and Asia Pacific Region Operations Manager, Baker Atlas from 2000 to 2001. Employed by the Company in 1979. Alan J. Keifer 53 Vice President and Controller of the Company since 1999. Western Hemisphere Controller of Baker Oil Tools from 1997 to 1999 and Director of Corporate Audit for the Company from 1990 to 1996. Employed by the Company in 1990. Jay G. Martin 56 Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Senior Deputy General Counsel of the Company since 2004. Shareholder at Winstead Sechrest & Minick P.C. from 2001 to 2004. Partner, Phelps Dunbar from 2000 to 2001 and Partner, Andrews & Kurth from 1996 to 2000. Employed by the Company in 2004. Nelson Ney 44 Vice President of the Company and President of Centrilift since 2007. Operations Vice President, Europe, Africa, Russia and the Caspian Region for Hughes Christensen from 2006 to 2007; Operations Vice President, Centrilift Latin America Region from 2005 to 2006; General Manager, Centrilift Latin America operations from 2004 to 2005 and Regional Manager, Hughes Christensen Latin America operations from 2001 to 2004. Employed by the Company in 1990. John A. O’Donnell 59 Vice President of the Company since 1998 and President of Baker Petrolite Corporation since 2005. President of Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids from 2004 to 2005. Vice President, Business Process Development of the Company from 1998 to 2002; Vice President, Manufacturing, of Baker Oil Tools from 1990 to 1998 and Plant Manager of Hughes Tool Company from 1988 to 1990. Employed by the Company in 1975. Gary G. Rich 49 Vice President of the Company and President of Hughes Christensen since 2006. Vice President Marketing, Drilling and Evaluation for INTEQ from 2005 to 2006. Region Manager for INTEQ from 2001 to 2005; Director of Marketing for Hughes Christensen from 1998 to 2001 and served in various marketing and finance positions for the Company from 1987 to 1998. Employed by the Company in 1987. Richard L. Williams 52 Vice President of the Company and President of Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids since 2005. Vice President, Eastern Hemisphere Operations, Baker Oil Tools from March 2005 to May 2005. Worldwide Operations Vice President, INTEQ from 2004 to 2005; Vice President Eastern Hemisphere, INTEQ from 2003 to 2004 and Vice President Western Hemisphere, INTEQ from 2001 to 2003. Employed by the Company in 1975. There are no family relationships among our executive officers. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are committed to the health and safety of people, protection of the environment and compliance with laws, regulations and our policies. Our past and present operations include activities that are subject to domestic (including U.S. federal, state and local) and international regulations with regard to air and water quality and other environmental matters. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these regulations. Regulation in this area continues to evolve, and changes in standards of enforcement of existing regulations, as well as the enactment and enforcement of new legislation, may require us and our customers to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities or to change or discontinue present methods of operation. We are involved in voluntary remediation projects at some of our present and former manufacturing locations or other facilities, the majority of which relate to properties obtained in acquisitions or to sites no longer actively used in operations. On rare occasions, remediation activities are conducted as specified by a government agency-issued consent decree or agreed order. Estimated 13 Table of Contents remediation costs are accrued using currently available facts, existing environmental permits, technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. For sites where we are primarily responsible for the remediation, our cost estimates are developed based on internal evaluations and are not discounted. Such accruals are recorded when it is probable that we will be obligated to pay amounts for environmental site evaluation, remediation or related activities, and such amounts can be reasonably estimated. If the obligation can only be estimated within a range, we accrue the minimum amount in the range. Such accruals are recorded even if significant uncertainties exist over the ultimate cost of the remediation. Ongoing environmental compliance costs, such as obtaining environmental permits, installation of pollution control equipment and waste disposal, are expensed as incurred. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we spent $35.2 million to comply with domestic and international standards regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment (collectively, “Environmental Regulations”). This cost includes the total spent on remediation projects at current or former sites, Superfund projects and environmental compliance activities, exclusive of capital expenditures. In 2008, we expect to spend approximately $38 million to comply with Environmental Regulations. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred $7.9 million in capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, and we estimate we will incur approximately $15 million during 2008. In addition, we estimate we will incur approximately $19 million in capital expenditures for the relocation of an existing plant in the U.K. to comply with local environmental regulations. Depending on the resolution of environmental permitting, up to $13 million may be spent in 2008 and the remainder in 2009. Based upon current information, we believe that our compliance with Environmental Regulations will not have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position because we have either established adequate reserves or our cost for that compliance is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (known as “Superfund” or “CERCLA”) imposes liability for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. Superfund liability is imposed without regard to fault, even if the waste disposal was in compliance with laws and regulations. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) in remedial activities related to various Superfund sites, and we accrue our share of the estimated remediation costs of the site based on the ratio of the estimated volume of waste we contributed to the site to the total volume of waste disposed at the site. With the joint and several liability imposed under Superfund, a PRP may be required to pay more than its proportional share of such costs. We have been identified as a PRP at various Superfund sites discussed below. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and appropriate state agencies supervise investigative and cleanup activities at these sites. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we paid $0.1 million in Superfund costs and have accrued an additional $5.3 million related to these sites. Payments made in 2007 are in addition to amounts previously paid in settlements, cash calls or other Superfund costs, and these ongoing contributions reduce our financial liability for the total site cleanup costs shown below. When used in the descriptions of the sites that follow, the word de minimis refers to the smallest PRPs, whose contribution rate is usually less than 1%. (a) In 1999, Baker Oil Tools, Baker Petrolite and predecessor entities of Baker Petrolite were named as PRPs by the State of California’s Department of Toxic Substances Control for the Gibson site in Bakersfield, California. Remediation consisting of extensive soil excavation and removal is now complete at a cost of approximately $5 million, with remaining costs estimated at less than $1 million. Our combined volume allocation is 1.6% for liquids and 0.4% for solids. (b) In 2001, a Hughes Christensen predecessor, Baker Oil Tools, INTEQ and one of our former subsidiaries were named as PRPs in the Force Road State Superfund site located in Brazoria County, Texas. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”) is overseeing the investigation and remediation at the Force Road site. We participate as a member of the steering and technical committees to effectively manage the project because our volumetric contribution is currently estimated at approximately 76%. The investigation phase of the project is essentially complete and the results indicate that the extent of the groundwater contamination is less than originally estimated. These results along with new surveys indicate little to no offsite impact. We believe that after the most effective remedial alternatives are identified, the remedial costs could be less than $10 million. An accurate calculation of site remediation costs will be available once the Remedial Action Plan is developed, which will occur during early 2008. $1.8 million was raised from the de minimis settlement process, which is now complete. (c) In 2002, Baker Petrolite predecessors, Hughes Christensen predecessors and several of our former subsidiaries were identified as PRPs for the Malone site located on Campbell Bayou Road in Texas City, Texas. The EPA oversees the investigation and remediation of the Malone site and has engaged in emergency removal actions. The investigation is complete and remedial alternatives have been developed and submitted to the EPA for evaluation. The EPA has concluded that the remaining costs for the remedial action are $52.8 million. Along with the EPA oversight costs, project management fees and other expenses, the total outstanding project costs are not expected to exceed $72 million. Our contribution was recently adjusted downward and is now 1.26%. A lawsuit filed by the current owners of the site and a related entity against the PRP Group (Malone Cooperating Parties) seeking recovery of certain alleged damages was settled at a cost of $1.2 million, and included arrangements for the eventual transfer of the property to a conservation organization or other non-profit entity. 14 Table of Contents (d) In 2003, we were identified as a de minimis PRP by the EPA for the Operating Industries, Inc. Superfund site in Monterrey Park, California. A settlement offer to all remaining de minimis parties has been repeatedly delayed. The EPA and Steering Committee have incurred approximately $345 million and expect an additional $367 million in cleanup costs. Information provided by the EPA in 2007 indicates that our contribution is 0.092%, although our ultimate liability has yet to be negotiated and may include a premium for early settlement. (e) In 2003, Baker Petrolite was notified by the EPA of their potential involvement at the Cooper Drum Superfund site located in South Gate, California. We responded to an additional inquiry from the EPA in 2005. At this time, the estimate for comprehensive cleanup costs is approximately $20 million but the extent of our responsibility for these costs is not yet known. (f) In 2006, we were one of five PRPs to receive an information request from the EPA regarding the Washington County Lead District Superfund site, a federal Superfund located in Washington County, Missouri. We have responded to the EPA regarding our involvement with two of the six mines listed in the information request. A preliminary screening and removal action has been completed by the EPA to evaluate the impacts of lead and other heavy metals on the soil and groundwater in the area. In late 2007, the site was proposed for inclusion on the National Priorities list. There has been no formal assignment of responsibility and an estimate of potential cleanup costs has not been developed; therefore, we are unable to estimate the potential cost to the Company. (g) In 2006, Baker Petrolite received a General Notice of Potential Liability letter from the EPA concerning the RRG/Clayton Chemical Superfund site in Sauget, Illinois and its impact on the adjacent Sauget Area 2 Groundwater Superfund site. We have participated in cleanup activities at the Clayton site as a small party with an allocation just over the de minimis level. Our known costs are approximately 0.78% of the estimated remedy cost of $5.2 million. However, our ultimate liability may now include some responsibility for the downgradient groundwater cleanup at the Sauget Area 2 Groundwater Superfund site; however, sufficient information is not available to estimate the additional potential cost to the Company. (h) In 2006, a settlement demand was received from the PRP Group for the Pulvair Superfund site located in Millington, Tennessee for waste sent to the site by Milchem, a predecessor to Baker Hughes Drilling Fluids. The matter has not yet been resolved; however, it is expected to be settled at a cost of less than $0.2 million. In addition to the sites mentioned above, there are six Superfund sites where we have ongoing obligations. The emergency removal actions and subsequent remedial work at most of these sites has been completed and remaining operations are limited to groundwater recovery and/or monitoring. The monitoring phase can continue for up to 30 years. Our aggregate cost for these sites is estimated to be $0.3 million over this period of time. While PRPs in Superfund actions have joint and several liability for all costs of remediation, it is not possible at this time to quantify our ultimate exposure because some of the projects are either in the investigative or early remediation stage, or allocation information is not yet available. However, based upon current information, we do not believe that probable or reasonably possible expenditures in connection with the sites described above are likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements because we have recorded adequate reserves to cover the estimate we presently believe will be our ultimate liability in the matter. Further, other PRPs involved in the sites have substantial assets and may reasonably be expected to pay their share of the cost of remediation, and, in some circumstances, we have insurance coverage or contractual indemnities from third parties to cover a portion of or the ultimate liability. We are subject to various other governmental proceedings and regulations, including foreign regulations, relating to environmental matters, but we do not believe that any of these matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. We continue to focus on reducing future environmental liabilities by maintaining appropriate company standards and improving our assurance programs. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further discussion of environmental matters. “Environmental Matters” contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act (each a “Forward-Looking Statement”). The words “will,” “believe,” “to be,” “expect,” “estimate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our expectations regarding our compliance with Environmental Regulations and our expenditures to comply with Environmental Regulations, including (without limitation) our capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, are only our forecasts regarding these matters. These forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which may be affected by the following factors: changes in Environmental Regulations; a material change in our allocation or other unexpected, adverse outcomes with respect to sites where we have been named as a PRP, including (without limitation) the Superfund sites described above; the discovery of new sites of which we are not aware and where additional expenditures may be required to comply with Environmental Regulations; an unexpected 15 Table of Contents discharge of hazardous materials in the course of our business or operations; a catastrophic event causing discharges into the environment; or an acquisition of one or more new businesses. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves various risks. When considering an investment in our Company, one should consider carefully all of the risk factors described below, as well as other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and matters not listed below, that we are unaware of, or that we currently consider immaterial. Any of these could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an investment in our Company. Risk Factors Related to the Worldwide Oil and Natural Gas Industry Our business is focused on providing products and services to the worldwide oil and natural gas industry; therefore, our risk factors include those factors that impact, either positively or negatively, the markets for oil and natural gas. Expenditures by our customers for exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas are based on their expectations of future hydrocarbon demand, the risks associated with developing the reserves and the future value of the hydrocarbon reserves. Their evaluation of the future value is based, in part, on their expectations for global demand, global supply and other factors that influence oil and natural gas prices. The key risk factors currently influencing the worldwide oil and natural gas markets are discussed below. Demand for oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our operating results. Growth in worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, as well as the demand for our services, is highly correlated with global economic growth, and in particular by the economic growth of countries such as the U.S. and China, who are significant users of oil and natural gas. Increases in global economic activity, particularly in China and developing Asia, create more demand for oil and natural gas and higher oil and natural gas prices. A slowing of global economic growth, and in particular in the U.S. or China, will likely reduce demand for oil and natural gas, increase spare productive capacity and result in lower prices and adversely impact the demand for our services. In addition, demand for hydrocarbons could be impacted by environmental regulation targeting reduction of greenhouse gas emissions including the cost for Carbon Capture and Sequestration. Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can also impact our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services. While current energy prices are important contributors to positive cash flow for our customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are generally more important for determining future spending levels. While higher oil and natural gas prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers, sustained high energy prices can be an impediment to economic growth, and can therefore negatively impact spending by our customers. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk. Any of these factors could affect the demand for oil and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our operating results. Productive capacity for oil and natural gas is dependent on our customers’ decisions to develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves. The ability to produce oil and natural gas can be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Advanced technologies, such as horizontal drilling, improve total recovery but also result in a more rapid production decline. Access to prospects and capital are also important to our customers. Access to prospects may be limited because host governments do not allow access to the reserves or because another oil and natural gas exploration company owns the rights to develop the prospect. Access to capital is dependent on our customers’ ability to access the funds necessary to develop economically attractive projects based on their expectations of future energy prices, required investments and resulting returns. Government regulations and the costs incurred by oil and natural gas exploration companies to conform to and comply with government regulations, may also limit the quantity of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced. Supply can be interrupted by a number of factors including political instability, civil unrest, labor issues, terrorist attacks, war or military activity. Key oil producing countries which could be subject to supply interruptions include, but are not limited to, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and other Middle Eastern countries, Nigeria, Norway, Russia and Venezuela. The impact of supply disruptions on oil and 16 Table of Contents natural gas prices and oil and natural gas price volatility is tempered by the size and expected duration of the disruption relative to the spare productive capacity at the time of the disruption. Supply can also be impacted by the degree to which individual Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) nations and other large oil and natural gas producing countries, including, but not limited to, Norway and Russia, are willing and able to control production and exports of oil, to decrease or increase supply and to support their targeted oil price while meeting their market share objectives. Any of these factors could affect the supply of oil and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The worldwide oil and natural gas industry is subject to geopolitical and terrorism risks. Geopolitical risks and terrorist activity continue to grow in several key countries where the Company does business. These risks could lead to a loss of investment in the country as well as a disruption in business activities. Spare productive capacity and future demand impact our operations. Oil and natural gas storage inventory levels are an indicator of the relative balance between supply and demand. High or increasing storage or inventories generally indicate that supply is exceeding demand and that energy prices are likely to soften. Low or decreasing storage or inventories are an indicator that demand is growing faster than supply and that energy prices are likely to rise. Measures of maximum productive capacity compared to demand (“spare productive capacity”) are also an important factor influencing energy prices and spending by oil and natural gas exploration companies. When spare productive capacity is low compared to demand, energy prices tend to be higher and more volatile reflecting the increased vulnerability of the entire system to disruption. Seasonal and adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for our services and operations. Weather can also have a significant impact on demand as consumption of energy is seasonal and any variation from normal weather patterns, cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a significant impact on demand. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our expectations regarding our business are affected by the following risk factors and the timing of any of these risk factors: We operate in a highly competitive environment, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed. We operate in a highly competitive environment for marketing oilfield services and securing equipment and trained personnel. Our ability to continually provide competitive products and services can impact our ability to maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. In order to be competitive, we must provide new technologies, and reliable products and services that perform as expected and that create value for our customers. Our ability to maintain or increase prices for our products and services is in part dependent on the industry’s capacity relative to customer demand, and on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our products and services from our competitor’s products and services. In addition, our ability to negotiate acceptable contract terms and conditions with our customers, especially state-owned national oil companies, our ability to manage warranty claims and our ability to effectively manage our commercial agents can also impact our results of operations. Managing development of competitive technology and new product introductions on a forecasted schedule and at forecasted costs can impact our financial results. Development of competing technology that accelerates the obsolescence of any of our products or services can have a detrimental impact on our financial results and can result in the potential impairment of long-lived assets. We may be disadvantaged competitively and financially by a significant movement of exploration and production operations to areas of the world in which we are not currently active. 17 Table of Contents The high cost or unavailability of infrastructure, materials, equipment, supplies and personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis. Our manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts and manufacturing capacity available to meet our manufacturing plans at a reasonable cost while minimizing inventories. Our ability to effectively manage our manufacturing operations and meet these goals can have an impact on our business, including our ability to meet our manufacturing plans and revenue goals, control costs and avoid shortages of raw materials and component parts. Raw materials and components of particular concern include steel alloys (including chromium and nickel), titanium, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds, electronic components and hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks. Our ability to repair or replace equipment damaged or lost in the well can also impact our ability to service our customers. A lack of manufacturing capacity could result in increased backlog, which may limit our ability to respond to short lead time orders. People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing and delivering our products and services to our customers around the world. Our ability to manage the recruiting, training and retention of the highly skilled workforce required by our plans and to manage the associated costs could impact our business. A well-trained, motivated work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Rapid growth presents a challenge to us and our industry to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the impact of wage inflation and potential lack of available qualified labor in the markets where we operate. Labor-related actions, including strikes, slowdowns and facility occupations can also have a negative impact on our business. The terms and the impact of the settlement with the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and SEC may negatively impact our ongoing operations. Under the settlements in connection with the previously disclosed compliance investigations by the DOJ and SEC, we are subject to ongoing review and regulation of our business operations, including the review of our operations and compliance program by an independent monitor appointed to assess our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) policies and procedures. The activities of the independent monitor will have a cost to us and may cause a change in our processes and operations, the outcome of which we are unable to predict. In addition, the settlements may impact our operations or result in legal actions against us in the countries that are the subject of the settlements. Also, the collateral impact of settlement in the United States and other countries outside the United States where we do business that may claim jurisdiction over any of the matters related to the DOJ and SEC settlements could be material. These settlements could also result in third-party claims against us, which may include claims for special, indirect, derivative or consequential damages. In addition, we could incur additional taxes as a result of our resolution with the DOJ and SEC. Our failure to comply with the terms of our agreements with the DOJ and SEC would have a negative impact on our ongoing operations. Under the settlements with the DOJ and SEC, we are subject to a two-year deferred prosecution agreement and enjoined by the federal district court against any further violations of the FCPA. Accordingly, the settlements reached with the DOJ and SEC could be substantially nullified and we could be subject to severe sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution as well as fines and penalties in the event of a subsequent violation by us or any of our employees or our failure to meet all of the conditions contained in the settlements. The impact of the settlements on our ongoing operations could include limits on revenue growth and increases in operating costs. Our ability to comply with the terms of the settlements is dependent on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to continue to manage our agents and business partners and supervise, train and retain competent employees and the efforts of our employees to comply with applicable law and the Baker Hughes Business Code of Conduct. Compliance with and changes in laws or adverse positions taken by taxing authorities could be costly and could affect operating results. Our operations in the U.S. and over 90 countries can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Our ability to manage our compliance costs will impact our ability to meet our earnings goals. Compliance related issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulation, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of the existing legal rules and regulations, in particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate. Changes that impact the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in environmental laws, changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. In addition, we may periodically restructure our legal entity organization. If taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in connection with any such restructurings, our effective tax rate could be materially impacted. 18 Table of Contents These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. Uninsured claims and litigation could adversely impact our operating results. We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available, however, no assurance can be given that the nature and amount of that insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. This insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The insurance does not cover damages from breach of contract by us or based on alleged fraud or deceptive trade practices. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. Insurance and customer agreements do not provide complete protection against losses and risks, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. Compliance with and rulings and litigation in connection with environmental regulations may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business is impacted by unexpected outcomes or material changes in environmental liability. Changes in our environmental liability could originate with the discovery of new environmental remediation sites, changes in environmental regulations, or the discharge of hazardous materials into the environment. Control of oil and gas reserves by state-owned oil companies may impact the demand for our services and create additional risks in our operations. Much of the world’s oil and gas reserves are controlled by state-owned oil companies. State-owned oil companies may require its contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards that could be difficult for the Company to meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely impact the Company’s operations in those countries. In addition, many state-owned oil companies may require integrated contracts or turn-key contracts that could require the Company to provide services outside its core business. Providing services on an integrated or turnkey basis generally require the Company to assume additional risks. Changes in economic conditions and currency fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar can impact our costs of doing business. Most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated in U.S. Dollars or local currency indexed to U.S. Dollars. Local expenses and some of our manufacturing costs are incurred in local currencies and therefore changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Norwegian Krone, Venezuelan Bolivar, Australian Dollar and Brazilian Real, can increase or decrease our expenses reported in U.S. Dollars and may adversely impact our results of operations. The condition of the capital markets and equity markets in general can affect the price of our common stock and our ability to obtain financing, if necessary. If the Company’s credit rating is downgraded, this would increase our costs under our $500.0 million revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program, as well as the cost of obtaining, or make it more difficult to obtain or issue, new debt financing. Our ability to forecast the size of and changes in the worldwide oil and natural gas industry and our ability to forecast our customers’ activity levels and demand for our products and services impacts our management of our manufacturing and distribution activities, our staffing levels and our cash and financing requirements. Unanticipated changes in our customers’ requirements can impact our costs, creating temporary shortages or surpluses of equipment and people and demands for cash or financing. Changes in market conditions may impact any stock repurchases. To the extent the Company engages in stock repurchases, such activity is subject to market conditions, such as the trading prices for our stock, as well as the terms of any stock purchase plans intended to comply with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. Management in its discretion may engage in or discontinue stock repurchases at any time. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 