Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the Company’s control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We have in place an Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) process that involves systematic risk identification and mitigation covering the categories of Strategic, Financial Operational and Compliance risk. The goal of ERM is not to eliminate all risk, but rather identify, assess and rank risks; assign, mitigate and monitor risks; and report the status of our risk to the Risk and Executive Committees, the Audit Committee, and the Board of Directors. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. These risks are not the only risks that we face and our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. The markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality. Our ability to be profitable depends in part on the varying conditions in the truck, bus, mid-range diesel engine, and service parts markets, which are subject to cycles in the overall business environment and are particularly sensitive to the industrial sector, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Truck and engine demand is also dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate levels and fuel costs, among other external factors. Our Truck, Engine, and Parts segments are heavily influenced by the overall performance of the medium and heavy truck retail markets within the U.S. and Canada (our “traditional” market), which consists of vehicles in weight classes 6 through 8, including school buses. The “traditional” market is typically cyclical in nature and cycles can span several years. The current worldwide economic recession has adversely impacted the industry and the market demand for our products remains stagnant with significantly lower volumes in 2009 than previously expected. Every part of our business, excluding sales to the U.S. military, has been adversely affected by the global recession during 2008 and 2009. These trends have persisted through the date of this filing and are reflected in our results of operations for the fourth quarter and all of 2009. The “traditional” truck industry retail deliveries were 181,800, 244,100, and 319,000 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We expect 2010 industry volumes to be in the range of 175,000 to 215,000 units. Our technology solution to meet U.S. federal 2010 emissions requirements may not be successful or may be more costly than planned. Truck and engine manufacturers continue to face significant governmental regulation of their products, especially in the areas of environment and safety. In that regard, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant 9 Table of Contents research, development, and tooling costs to design and produce our engine product lines to meet U.S. EPA and CARB emission requirements. The new on-highway heavy duty emissions standards that came into effect in the U.S. for the 2007 model year reduced allowable particulate matter and allowable nitrogen oxide. This change in emissions standards resulted in a significant increase in the cost of our products to meet these emissions levels. An emissions cap as part of the phase-in process for the heavy duty engines comes into effect for the model year 2010. In addition, emission regulations will begin the initial phase-in in 2010 with respect to the on-board diagnostics for truck engines and are a part of our product plans. Most other truck and engine manufacturers have chosen urea-based selective catalytic reduction (“SCR”) systems to address the 2010 emission standards. We intend to address the 2010 emissions requirements for our core applications through advances in fuel systems, air management, combustion and engine controls and continue to explore other cost effective alternative solutions for meeting these emissions standards. Our technology solution to meet U.S. federal 2010 emissions requirements may not be successful or may be more costly than planned. We have significant under-funded postretirement obligations. The under-funded portion of our projected benefit obligation was $1.5 billion and $763 million for pension benefits at October 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $1.2 billion and $979 million for postretirement healthcare benefits at October 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Moreover, we have assumed expected rates of return on plan assets and growth rates of retiree medical costs and the failure to achieve the expected rates of return and growth rates could have an adverse impact on our under-funded postretirement obligations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The volatility in the financial markets affects the valuation of our pension assets and liabilities, resulting in potentially higher pension costs and higher levels of under-funding in future periods. The requirements set forth in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as applicable to our U.S. pension plan (including such timing requirements) mandated by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 to fully fund our U.S. pension plan, net of any current or possible future legislative or governmental agency relief, could also have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our current business strategies and initiatives. We have recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures and announced our intention to explore a number of potential additional joint ventures and strategic alliances. We cannot assure you that we will complete the joint ventures or strategic alliances we have expressed an interest in exploring, or that our previous or future acquisitions, joint ventures, or our strategic alliances will be successful or will generate the expected benefits. In addition, we cannot assure you we will not have disputes arise with our joint venture partners and that such disputes will not lead to litigation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the joint venture or our relationship with our joint venture partners. Failure to successfully manage and integrate these and potential future acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently in discussions with multiple parties regarding a strategic alliance involving NFC. At this time, we cannot assure you that we will reach a definitive agreement with respect to any such strategic alliance or, if we do reach a definitive agreement, what the ultimate terms of such alliance will be or whether we will achieve our stated goals from such alliance. Our business may be adversely affected by government contracting risks. We derived approximately 25% of our revenues for 2009, and approximately 27% and 4% of our revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively, from the U.S. government. Many of our existing U.S. government contracts extend over multiple years and are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. 10 Table of Contents Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis and if the congressional appropriations for a program under which we are contractors are not made, or are reduced or delayed, our contract could be cancelled or government purchases under the contract could be reduced or delayed, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Although we have multiple bids and quotes, there are no guarantees that they will be awarded to us in the future or that volumes will be similar to volumes under previously awarded contracts. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally permit the contracting government agency to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, either for the convenience of the government or for default based on our failure to perform under the contract. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to the payment of our allowable costs and an allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, we could be exposed to liability and our ability to obtain future contracts could be adversely affected. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Some of our suppliers are the sole source for a particular supply item. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The volatility in the financial markets and uncertainty in the automotive sector could result in exposure related to the financial viability of certain of our key third-party suppliers. In response to financial pressures, suppliers may also exit certain business lines, or change the terms on which they are willing to provide products. In addition, many of our suppliers have unionized workforces which could be subject to work stoppages as a result of labor relations issues. We may be subject to greenhouse gas regulations. Additional changes to on-highway emissions or performance standards as well as complying with additional environmental and safety requirements would add to the cost of our products and increase the capital-intensive nature of our business. In that regard, we have been closely monitoring regulatory proposals intended to address greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory proposals, if adopted, may have an impact on both our facilities and our products. The scope of the impact of any greenhouse gas emission regulatory program is still uncertain and we are, therefore, unable to predict the impact to our operations. We must comply with numerous miscellaneous federal national security laws, procurement regulations, and procedures, as well as the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts that affect how we do business with our clients and impose added costs on our business. For example, the federal acquisition regulations, foreign government procurement regulations and the industrial security regulations of the Department of Defense and related laws include provisions that: • allow our government clients to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence; • allow our government clients to terminate existing contracts for the convenience of the government; • require us to prevent unauthorized access to classified information; and • require us to comply with laws and regulations intended to promote various social or economic goals. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the U.S. Department of State, Department of Commerce and the Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners’ access to classified or restricted information. As we expand our operations internationally, we will also become subject to 11 Table of Contents the rules and regulations of foreign jurisdictions. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, we could lose our facility security clearances, which could result in our federal government customers terminating or deciding not to renew our contracts and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. A failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or procedures, including federal regulations regarding the procurement of goods and services and protection of classified information, could result in contract termination, loss of security clearances, suspension or prohibition from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which would materially adversely affect our business. Our products are subject to export limitations and we may be prevented from shipping our products to certain nations or buyers. We are subject to federal licensing requirements with respect to the sale and support in foreign countries of certain of our products and the importation of components for our products. In addition, we are obligated to comply with a variety of federal, state and local regulations and procurement policies, both domestically and abroad, governing certain aspects of our international sales and support, including regulations promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Departments of Commerce, Defense and State and the U.S. Department of Justice. Such licenses may be denied for reasons of U.S. national security or foreign policy. In the case of certain large orders for exports of defense equipment, the Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurances that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. For products and technology exported from the U.S. or otherwise subject to U.S. jurisdiction, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to International Traffic in Arms Regulations, Export Administration Regulations, the Foreign Military Sales program and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury. A determination by the U.S. government that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other laws which prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials by U.S. and other business entities. We operate in countries known to experience corruption. Our operations in such countries create the risk of an unauthorized payment by one of our employees or agents which could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA. Additionally, the failure to obtain applicable governmental approval and clearances could materially adversely affect our ability to continue to service the government contracts we maintain. Exports of some of our products to certain international destinations may require shipment authorization from U.S. export control authorities, including the U.S. Departments of Commerce and State, and authorizations may be conditioned on end-use restrictions. Our international business is also highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. Sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the U.S. and abroad) and U.S. foreign policy. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to political, economic, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. We have significant operations in foreign countries, primarily in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and India. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic, and other risks that are inherent in operating in those countries and internationally. These risks include, among others: • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes on the repatriation of foreign earnings; • difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • currency exchange rate risk; and • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. We operate in the highly competitive North American truck market. The North American truck market in which we operate is highly competitive. Our major U.S. domestic competitors include: PACCAR and Ford. The competing foreign-controlled domestic manufacturers include: Freightliner and Western Star (both subsidiaries of Daimler-Benz AG (“Mercedes Benz”)), and Volvo and Mack (both subsidiaries of Volvo Global Trucks). The major U.S. military vehicle competitors include: BAE Systems, Force Protection Inc, General Dynamics Land Systems, General Purpose Vehicles, Oshkosh Truck, and Protected Vehicles Incorporated. In addition, smaller, foreign-controlled market participants such as Isuzu Motors America, Inc., Nissan North America, Inc., Hino (a subsidiary of Toyota Motor Corporation), and Mitsubishi Motors North America, Inc. are competing in the U.S. and Canadian markets with primarily imported products. In Mexico, the major domestic competitors are Kenmex (a subsidiary of PACCAR) and Mercedes Benz. The intensity of this competition, which is expected to continue, results in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and adversely affects our ability to increase or maintain vehicle prices. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage in responding to substantial industry changes, such as changes in governmental regulations that require major additional capital expenditures. In addition, certain of our competitors may have lower overall labor costs. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant portion of our workforce is unionized. As of October 31, 2009, approximately 61% of our hourly workers and 10% of our salaried workers are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. Our current collective bargaining agreement with the UAW will expire in October 2010. Any UAW strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in connection with the negotiation of a new agreement or otherwise could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce structural costs and improve production efficiencies. A lengthy strike by the UAW that involves a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional information regarding our collective bargaining agreements, see Item 1, “Business—Employees.” We continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business which could include, among other actions, additional rationalization of our manufacturing operations that could result in significant charges and could include impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our manufacturing operations (including, without limitation, our Chatham manufacturing operations) in an effort to optimize the cost structure. 13 Table of Contents Future actions could result in restructuring and related charges, including but not limited to impairments, employee termination costs and charges for pension and other post retirement contractual benefits and pension curtailments that could be significant. We have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets, which are subject to periodic impairment analysis and review. Identifying and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating results, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. A result of any of the above future actions could result in charges that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Current credit market conditions may impair our access to sufficient capital to engage in financing activities or our customers’ ability to obtain financing from other sources. The U.S. and global economies are currently undergoing a period of economic uncertainty, and the related financial markets continue to experience volatility. The financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Our financial services operations support our manufacturing operations by providing financing to a significant portion of our dealers and retail customers. Our financial services operations have traditionally obtained the funds to provide such financing from sales of receivables, medium and long-term debt, and equity capital and from short and long-term bank borrowings. Navistar, Inc. made capital contributions to NFC of $20 million and $60 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively, in order to ensure that NFC maintained compliance with a covenant in its bank credit facility. If cash provided by operations, bank borrowings, continued sales and securitizations of receivables, and the placement of term debt does not provide the necessary liquidity, our financial services operations may restrict its financing of our products both at the wholesale and retail level, which may impair our ability to sell our products to customers who require financing and cannot obtain the necessary financing from other sources and may have a significant negative effect on our liquidity and results of operations. Our liquidity position may be adversely affected by a continued downturn in our industry. Any downturn in our industry can adversely affect our operating results. In the event that industry conditions remain weak for any significant period of time, our liquidity position may be adversely affected, which may limit our ability to complete product development programs, capital expenditure programs, or other strategic initiatives at currently anticipated levels. The loss of business from Ford could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Ford accounted for approximately 9% of our revenues for 2009 and approximately 7% and 14% of our revenues for 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, Ford accounted for approximately 42%, 44% and 58% of our diesel engine unit volume (including intercompany transactions) in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, primarily relating to the sale of our V-8 diesel engines. On January 13, 2009, we announced the Ford Settlement, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings for further discussion. As part of the Ford Settlement, we will end our current diesel engine supply agreement with Ford effective December 31, 2009. We will, however, continue our diesel engine supply arrangement with Ford in South America. The loss of business from Ford may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and may potentially subject us to other costs that may be material. We may fail to properly identify or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As is further described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of this Annual 14 Table of Contents Report on Form 10-K, we concluded that we have remediated all previous material weaknesses and accordingly there are no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2009. Although we consistently review and evaluate our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the sufficiency of our internal control, we cannot assure you that we will not discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any such material weaknesses could adversely affect investor confidence in the Company and we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information. Our ability to use net operating loss (“NOL”) carryovers to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is a change in our ownership or a failure to generate sufficient taxable income. Presently, there is no annual limitation on our ability to use U.S. federal NOLs to reduce future income taxes. However, if an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, occurs with respect to our capital stock, our ability to use NOLs would be limited to specific annual amounts. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points of our total capital stock in a three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use domestic NOLs to reduce taxable income is generally limited to an annual amount based on the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate. NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year continue to be allowed as carry forwards for the remainder of the 20-year carry forward period and can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryover period subject to the limitation in each year. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. If more than a 50% ownership change were to occur, use of our NOLs to reduce payments of federal taxable income may be deferred to later years within the 20-year carryover period; however, if the carryover period for any loss year expires, the use of the remaining NOLs for the loss year will be prohibited. If we should fail to generate a sufficient level of taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carry forward periods, then we will lose the ability to apply the NOLs as offsets to future taxable income. We are involved in pending litigation and an adverse resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of a particular matter described above or any future legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 16, Commitments and contingencies, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of 2009 that remain unresolved. 