D. Risk Factors Investing in our Ordinary shares involves certain risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our Ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our Ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 5 Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry The aerospace industry is subject to significant government regulation and oversight, and TAT and its subsidiaries may incur significant additional costs to comply with these regulations. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. TAT and its subsidiaries must be certified or accepted by the FAA, the United States Department of Defense, the European Aviation Safety Agency, or EASA, and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, in order to manufacture, sell and service parts used in aircrafts. If any of the material certifications, authorizations or approvals of TAT or its subsidiaries are revoked or suspended, then the operations of TAT or its subsidiaries, as the case may be, will be significantly curtailed and TAT and its subsidiaries could be subjected to significant fines and penalties. In the future, new and more demanding government regulations may be adopted or industry oversight may be increased. TAT and its subsidiaries may have to incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance with new regulations or to reacquire a revoked or suspended license or approval, which could materially reduce profitability. TAT competes with a number of established companies in all aspects of TAT’s business, many of which have significantly greater resources or capabilities than TAT. For the OEM of heat management solutions, TAT’s major competitors are other OEMs who manufacture heat transfer components, including manufacturers based in the U.S. such as the Hughes-Treitler division of Ametek Inc., Lytron Inc., Kintex, Niagara Thermal, Hamilton Sundstrand, Honeywell International, Stewart Werner South Wind Corp., United Aircraft Products and Triumph Thermal Systems, manufacturers based in Europe such as I.M.I. Marston Ltd., Dunlop Aerospace (including Serck Aviation) and manufacturers based in Asia such as Sumitomo Precision Products from Japan. Some of TAT’s competitors are far larger, have substantially greater resources, including technical, financial, research and development, marketing and distribution capabilities than TAT, and enjoy greater market recognition. These competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to price competition than TAT. TAT may not be able to offer its products as part of integrated systems to the same extent as its competitors or successfully develop or introduce new products that are more cost effective or offer better performance than those of its competitors. Failure to do so could adversely affect TAT’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For the OEM of electric motion systems, TAT’s major competitors are mainly large companies that provide standard products and companies that provide special customized solutions. As the providers of the systems in which TAT’s products are integrated usually tend to prefer local manufacturers for the purchase of the components, penetrating markets outside of Israel requires either high levels of product innovation or lower prices compared to the prices offered by such competitors or a local marketing and engineering presence in these countries. 6 For the Heat Transfer Services and Products, TAT’s major competitors are the service divisions of OEMs, the in-house maintenance services of a number of commercial airlines and other independent service providers, including Triumph Accessories (Triumph Corporation), LORI Heat Transfer Center of Honeywell (Tulsa, Oklahoma), SECAN-Honeywell (France) and Drake Air – Ametek (Tulsa, Oklahoma). For the MRO services for Aviation Components, TAT’s major competitors are the service divisions of OEMs, the in-house maintenance services of a number of commercial airlines and other independent service providers, including Standard Aero Group Inc., Aerotech International Inc., Honeywell International, AAR Corp., Messier-Dowty Aerospace (MD), Hawker Pacific and APRO. Competition in the MRO market is based on price, quality, engineered solutions, ability to provide a broad range of services, turn-around time, and the ability to perform repairs and overhauls rapidly. A number of our competitors have inherent competitive advantages. For example, we compete with the service divisions of large OEMs who in some cases have design authority with respect to their OEM products and are able to derive significant brand recognition from their OEM manufacturing activities. We also compete with the in-house service divisions of large commercial airlines and there is a strong incentive for an airline to fully-utilize the services of its maintenance employees and facilities. Further, TAT’s competitors may have additional competitive advantages, such as: · The ability to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and industry conditions or trends; · Greater access to capital; · Stronger relationships with customers and suppliers; · Greater name recognition; and · Access to superior technology and marketing resources. If TAT is unable to overcome these competitive disadvantages, then TAT’s business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 7 TAT derives a material part of its revenues from several major customers. If TAT loses any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with TAT, TAT’s revenues may be seriously affected. Five customers accounted for approximately 21.3%, 21.6% and 18.3% of TAT’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. TAT’s major customers may not maintain the same volume of business with TAT in the future. If TAT loses any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with TAT, TAT’s revenues may be seriously affected. A part of the revenues of TAT and its subsidiaries are from contracts with the U.S. and Israeli governments and are subject to special risks. A loss of all, or a major portion, of the revenues of TAT or any of its subsidiaries from government contracts could have a material adverse effect on TAT’s operations. A portion of the revenues of TAT and its subsidiaries are from contracts with the U.S. and Israeli governments. Sales to the U.S. and Israeli governments accounted for approximately 7.3%, 7.3% and 5.7% of TAT’s revenues on a consolidated basis for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Business with the U.S. and Israeli governments, as well as with the governments of other countries, is subject to risks which are not as relevant in business with private parties. These risks include the ability of the governmental authorities to unilaterally: · Suspend TAT or any of its subsidiaries from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; · Terminate existing contracts, with or without cause, at any time; · Condition the receipt of new contracts on conditions which are beyond the control of TAT; · Reduce the value of existing contracts; · Audit the contract-related costs and fees of TAT and its subsidiaries, including allocated indirect costs; and · Control or prohibit the export of the products of TAT and its subsidiaries. A decision by a governmental authority to take any or all of the actions listed above could materially reduce the sales and profitability of TAT and its subsidiaries. Most of the U.S. Government contracts of TAT and its subsidiaries can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if TAT or any of its subsidiaries defaults by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions generally provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed by TAT and its subsidiaries prior to termination. 8 Declines in military/defense budgets may result in reduced demand for the products and manufacturing services of TAT and its subsidiaries. Any decline could result in reduction in the business revenues of TAT and its subsidiaries and adversely affect their business, results of operations and financial condition. If TAT does not receive the governmental approvals necessary for the export of its products, TAT’s revenues may decrease. Similarly if TAT’s suppliers and partners do not receive their government approvals necessary to export their products or designs to TAT, TAT’s revenues may decrease. Under Israeli law, the export of certain of the products and know-how of TAT is subject to approval by the Israeli Ministry of Defense. To initiate sales proposals with regard to exports of the products and know-how of TAT and to export such products or know-how, TAT must obtain permits from the Ministry of Defense. TAT may not be able to receive in a timely manner, or at all, all the required permits for which it may apply in the future. Similarly, under foreign laws the export of certain military products, technical designs and spare parts require the prior approval of, or export license from, such foreign governments. In order to maintain the third party production, certain co-development activities and procurements required for the performance of certain contracts, TAT must receive detailed technical designs, products or product parts’ samples from its strategic partners or suppliers. TAT may not be able to receive all the required permits and/or licenses in a timely manner, or at all. Consequently, TAT’s revenues may decrease. TAT depends on a limited number of suppliers of components for its products and if TAT or any of its subsidiaries is unable to obtain these components when needed, they would experience delays in manufacturing their products and TAT’s financial results could be adversely affected. TAT relies on a limited number of key suppliers for parts for its OEM and MRO services. Certain of these suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more components upon which TAT is dependent. Suppliers of some of these components require TAT to place orders with significant lead-time to assure supply in accordance with TAT’s requirements. If TAT were to engage in a commercial dispute with or be unable to obtain adequate supplies of parts from these suppliers at commercially reasonable prices, TAT’s operations could be interrupted. Increased costs associated with supplied materials or components could increase TAT’s costs and reduce TAT’s profitability if TAT is unable to pass these cost increases on to its customers. 9 TAT may face increased costs and a reduced supply of raw materials. TAT may not be able to recoup future increases in the cost of raw materials or in electric power costs for its operations through price increases for its products. In recent years, the cost of raw materials and components used by TAT has fluctuated significantly due to market and industry conditions. The cost of electric power used in TAT’s operations has also fluctuated significantly in the last several years. TAT may not be able to recoup future increases in the cost of raw materials and components or electric power costs through price increases for its products. TAT faces special risks from international sales operations which may have a material adverse effect on TAT’s business, operating results and financial condition. In the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 77.4%, 70.3% and 76.3% of TAT’s sales, respectively, resulted from TAT’s international operations (out of Israel). This source of revenue is subject to various risks, including: · Governmental embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; · Changes in U.S. and foreign governmental regulations; · Changes in foreign exchange rates; · Tariffs; · Other trade barriers; · Political, economic and social instability; and · Difficulties collecting accounts receivable. Accordingly, TAT and its subsidiaries may encounter significant difficulties in connection with the sale of its products in international markets. 10 TAT may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute TAT’s shareholders’ equity and harm TAT’s business, results of operations and financial condition. TAT has pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. TAT is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of TAT’s resources and management’s attention. TAT may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into its operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as TAT’s existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm TAT’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require TAT to seek additional debt or equity financing. Future acquisitions by TAT could result in the following, any of which could materially harm TAT’s results of operations or the price of TAT’s Ordinary shares: · Issuance of equity securities that would dilute TAT’s shareholders’ percentages of ownership; · Large one-time write-offs; · The incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · Difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; · Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · Contractual disputes; · Risks of entering geographic and business markets in which TAT has no or only limited prior experience; and · Potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. 11 Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the market acceptance of the products of TAT. The aerospace and defense markets in which TAT competes are subject to technological changes, introduction of new products, change in customer demands and evolving industry standards. The future success of TAT will depend upon its ability to keep pace with technological developments and to timely address the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers by supporting existing and new technologies and by developing and introducing enhancements to its current products and new products. TAT may not be able to successfully develop and market enhancements to its products that will respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements. TAT may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of such enhancements; and such enhancements may not meet the requirements of the market or achieve any significant degrees of market acceptance. If release dates of any new products or enhancements of TAT are delayed, or if when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, TAT’s business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. TAT has fixed-price contracts with some of its customers and TAT bears the risk of costs in excess of its estimates. In addition, TAT may not be able to pass on increased costs to its customers. TAT has entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of its MRO and OEM customers. Pursuant to these contracts, TAT realizes all the benefits or costs resulting from any increases or decreases in the cost of providing services to these customers. Several of TAT’s contracts do not permit TAT to recover for increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs and other contracts may permit limited extent of periodic price adjustment. Any increase in these costs could increase the cost of operating the business of TAT and reduce its profitability. Factors such as inaccurate pricing and increases in the cost of labor, materials or overhead may result in cost over-runs and losses on those agreements. TAT may not succeed in obtaining an agreement of a customer to re-price a particular product, and may not be able to recoup previous losses resulting from incomplete or inaccurate engineering data. In addition, as costs increase, TAT may not be able to pass on such increase costs to its other customers. This could materially Impact TAT’s profitability. 12 TAT depends on its key executives, and may not be able to hire and retain additional key employees or successfully integrate new members of its team and the loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on TAT’s business. TAT’s success will depend largely on its continued reliance on the experience and expertise of its senior management. Any of the senior managers of TAT may terminate his employment with TAT and seek employment with others who may seek his expertise. The loss of the expertise of senior management of TAT through death, disability or termination of employment would have a material and adverse effect on TAT’s business, financial condition and results of operations. TAT is not the beneficiary of life or disability insurance covering any of the executives, key employees or other personnel of TAT. TAT depends on its manufacturing and MRO facilities and any material damage to these facilities may adversely impact TAT’s operations. TAT believes that its results of operations will be dependent in large part upon its ability to manufacture and deliver OEM products and to provide MRO services promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to its customers. As a result, any material disruption of TAT’s day-today operations could have a material adverse effect on their business, customer relations and profitability. TAT relies on its Gedera, Israel, Kibbutz Marom-Golan, Israel, Kernersville and Winston-Salem, North Carolina and Tulsa, Oklahoma facilities for the production of its OEM products and provision of its MRO services. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that significantly damaged or destroyed any of these facilities would have a material adverse effect on the operations of TAT. TAT uses equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced, and therefore material equipment failures could cause TAT or its subsidiaries to be unable to meet quality or delivery expectations of its customers. Many of the service and manufacturing processes of TAT are dependent on equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced. As a result, unexpected equipment failures could result in production delays or the manufacturing of defective products. The ability of TAT to meet the expectations of its customers with respect to on-time delivery of repaired components or quality OEM products is critical. The failure by TAT to meet the quality or delivery expectations of its customers could lead to the loss of one or more of its significant customers. 13 TAT may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on TAT and TAT’s executives and directors. TAT’s efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and TAT expects these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. TAT may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its assessments of its internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on TAT’s operating results, investor confidence in TAT’s reported financial information and the market price of TAT’s Ordinary shares. TAT has potential exposure to liabilities arising under environmental laws and regulations. The business operations and facilities of TAT are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters. Compliance with such laws as they relate to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances is a significant obligation for TAT at each of its facilities. TAT would be subject to serious consequences, including fines and other sanctions, and limitations on the operations of TAT due to changes to, or revocations of, the environmental permits applicable to its facilities if it fails to comply. The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require TAT to incur costs and become subject to new or increased liabilities that could increase the operating costs of TAT and adversely affect the manner in which TAT conducts its business. Under certain environmental laws, liability associated with investigation or remediation of hazardous substances can arise at a broad range of properties, including properties currently or formerly operated by TAT or any of its predecessors, as well as properties to which TAT sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, storage, or disposal. Costs and other obligations can arise from claims for toxic torts, natural resource and other damages, as well as the investigation and clean-up of contamination at such properties. Under certain environmental laws, such liability may be imposed jointly and severally, so TAT may be responsible for more than its proportionate share and may even be responsible for the entire liability at issue. The extent of any such liability can be difficult to predict. 14 TAT is exposed to potential liabilities arising from product liability and warranty claims. TAT’s operations expose TAT to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured, serviced or supplied by TAT. TAT believes that, in an effort to improve operating margins, some customers have delayed the replacement of parts beyond their recommended lifetime, which may undermine aircraft safety and increase the risk of liability of TAT and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that TAT will not experience any material product liability losses in the future, that it will not incur significant costs to defend such claims, that its insurance coverage will be adequate if claims were to arise or that it would be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. A successful claim brought against TAT or its subsidiaries in excess of its available insurance coverage may have a material adverse effect on TAT’s business. In addition, in the ordinary course of business of TAT, contractual disputes over warranties can arise. TAT may be subject to requests for cost sharing or pricing adjustments from its customers as a part of its commercial relationships with them, even though they have agreed to bear these risks. Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares TAT’s share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. TAT’s Ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond TAT’s control: · Quarterly variations in TAT’s operating results; · Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; 15 · Changes in expectations as to TAT’s future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · Announcements of technological innovations or new products by TAT or TAT’s competitors; · Announcements by TAT or TAT’s competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Changes in the status of TAT’s intellectual property rights; · Announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Future sales of TAT’s Ordinary shares; · De-listing of TAT’s shares from the NASDAQ Global Market; and · Stock market price and volume fluctuation. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of TAT’s Ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. TAT may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources both of which could have a material adverse effect on TAT’s business and results of operations. Substantial future sales of TAT’s Ordinary shares by TAT’s principal shareholders may depress TAT’s share price. TAT’s principal shareholder, Isal Amlat Investment (1993) Ltd., or Isal Amlat, beneficially owns (through its 94% interest in KMN Industries Ltd.) 53.89% of TAT’s outstanding shares of which 43.6% of TAT’s outstanding shares are held directly by its subsidiary, TAT Industries Ltd. If Isal Amlat sells substantial amounts of TAT’s Ordinary shares or if the perception exists that TAT’s principal shareholders may sell a substantial number of TAT’s Ordinary shares, the market price of TAT’s Ordinary shares may fall. Any substantial sales of TAT’s shares in the public market also might make it more difficult for TAT to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time, in a place and on terms TAT deems appropriate. 16 Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Because TAT has significant operations in Israel, TAT may be subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting Israel that could increase TAT’s operating expenses and disrupt TAT’s business. TAT is incorporated under the laws of Israel, and TAT’s executive offices, manufacturing plant and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence TAT. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on TAT’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on TAT’s operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and TAT’s operations is unclear. Since June 2007, when Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip, there have been extensive hostilities along the Gaza Strip. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and Syria, Lebanon and Iran may have a material adverse effect on TAT’s business, financial conditions and results of operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and TAT is precluded from marketing its products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on TAT’s operations, TAT’s financial results or the expansion of TAT’s business. 17 TAT may be adversely affected by a change in the exchange rate of the NIS against the dollar. Because exchange rates between the NIS and the dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on TAT’s profitability and period to period comparisons of TAT’s results. TAT’s financial statements are stated in dollars, while a portion of TAT’s expenses, primarily labor expenses, is incurred in NIS and a part of TAT’s revenues are quoted in NIS. Additionally, certain assets, as well as a portion of TAT’s liabilities, are denominated in NIS. Because exchange rates between the NIS and the dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on TAT’s profitability and period to period comparisons of TAT’s results. TAT’s results may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such devaluation is on lagging basis), if TAT’s revenues in NIS are higher than TAT’s expenses in NIS and/or the amount of TAT’s assets in NIS are higher than TAT’s liabilities in NIS. Alternatively, TAT’s results may be adversely affected by an appreciation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such appreciation is on a lagging basis), if the amount of TAT’s expenses in NIS are higher than the amount of TAT’s revenues in NIS and/or the amount of TAT’s liabilities in NIS are higher than TAT’s assets in NIS. TAT’s results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of its personnel to perform military service. Many of TAT’s employees and some of TAT’s directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. TAT’s operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of TAT’s executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in TAT’s operations could adversely affect TAT’s business. 18 Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. TAT is incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of TAT’s Ordinary shares are governed by TAT’s memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company, or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law currently does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is relatively little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of TAT, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depresses the price of TAT’s shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to TAT or to some of TAT’s shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of TAT, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of TAT’s shares. 19 Investors and TAT’s shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against TAT, TAT’s executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. TAT is incorporated in Israel and the majority of TAT’s executive officers and directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, many of TAT’s assets and most of the assets of TAT’s executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against TAT or certain of its executive officers and directors in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, TAT may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, TAT is permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, TAT may follow TAT’s home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that TAT obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of TAT, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in TAT and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. 20 