Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Our Business and Future Results Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue and business. The loss of any of such customers would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we provided services to Verizon and Sprint Nextel which generated combined revenues of 21.3% of our total 2007 revenues. These customers are free to seek out long-distance communications services from our competitors upon expiration of their contracts (in December 2009 in the case of Verizon and in March 2009 in the case of Sprint Nextel) or earlier upon the occurrence of certain contractually stipulated events including a default, the occurrence of a force majeure event, or a substantial change in applicable law or regulation under the applicable contract. Additionally, the contracts provide for periodic reviews to assure that the prices paid by Verizon and Sprint Nextel for their services remain competitive. Mergers and acquisitions in the communications industry are relatively common. If a change in control of Verizon or Sprint Nextel were to occur it would not permit them to terminate their existing contracts with us without a negotiated settlement, but it could in the future result in the termination of or a material adverse change in our relationships with these customers. In addition, Verizon’s and Sprint Nextel’s need for our long-distance services depends directly upon their ability to obtain and retain their own long-distance and wireless customers and upon the needs of those customers for long-distance services. The loss of one or more of Verizon or Sprint Nextel as customers, a material adverse change in our relationships with either of them or a material loss of or reduction in their long-distance customers would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We face competition that may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. There is substantial competition in the communications industry. The traditional dividing lines between long-distance telephone service, local access telephone service, wireless telephone service, Internet services and video services are increasingly becoming blurred. Through mergers and various service integration strategies, major providers are striving to provide integrated communications services offerings within and across geographic markets. We face increasing video services competition from DBS providers. We expect competition to increase as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, services and products. We cannot predict which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors. To the extent we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to changes in competitive factors in our industry and in our markets, we could lose market share or experience a decline in our revenue and net income. Competitive conditions create a risk of market share loss and the risk that customers shift to less profitable lower margin services. Competitive pressures also create challenges for our ability to grow new businesses or introduce new services successfully and execute our business plan. Each of our business segments also faces the risk of potential price cuts by our competitors that could materially adversely affect our market share and gross margins. 39 For more information about competition by segment, see the sections titled “Competition” included in “Item 1 — Business — Narrative Description of our Business — Description of our Business by Reportable Segment.” Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation. Applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Local Access Services. Our success in the local telephone market depends on our continued ability to obtain interconnection, access and related services from Local Exchange carriers on terms that are just and reasonable and that are based on the cost of providing these services. Our local telephone services business faces the risk of the impact of the implementation of current regulations and legislation, unfavorable changes in regulation or legislation or the introduction of new regulations. Our ability to enter into the local telephone market depends on our negotiation or arbitration with Local Exchange carriers to allow interconnection to the carrier’s existing local telephone network, to establish dialing parity, to obtain access to rights-of-way, to resell services offered by the Local Exchange carrier, and in some cases, to allow the purchase, at cost-based rates, of access to unbundled network elements. In some Alaska markets, it also depends on our ability to gain interconnection at economic costs. Future arbitration proceedings with respect to new or existing markets could result in a change in our cost of serving these markets via the facilities of the ILEC or via wholesale offerings. Video Services. The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at various levels, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. The law permits certified local franchising authorities to order refunds of rates paid in the previous 12-month period determined to be in excess of the reasonable rates. It is possible that rate reductions or refunds of previously collected fees may be required of us in the future. Currently, pursuant to Alaska law, the basic cable rates in Juneau are the only rates in Alaska subject to regulation by the local franchising authority, and the rates in Juneau were reviewed and approved by the RCA in January 2007. Other existing federal regulations, currently the subject of judicial, legislative, and administrative review, could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which cable television systems operate. Neither the outcome of these proceedings nor their impact upon the cable television industry in general, or on our activities and prospects in the cable television business in particular, can be predicted at this time. There can be no assurance that future regulatory actions taken by Congress, the FCC or other federal, state or local government authorities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Proposals may be made before Congress and the FCC to mandate cable operators provide “open access” over their cable systems to Internet service providers. As of the date of this report, the FCC has declined to impose such requirements. If the FCC or other authorities mandate additional access to our cable systems, we cannot predict the effect that this would have on our Internet service offerings. Internet Services. Changes in the regulatory environment relating to the Internet access market, including changes in legislation, FCC regulation, judicial action or local regulation that affect communications costs or increase competition from the ILEC or other communications services providers, could adversely affect the prices at which we sell Internet services. Legislative or regulatory proposals under the banner of “net neutrality”, if adopted, could interfere with our ability to reasonably manage and invest in our broadband network, and could adversely affect the manner and price of providing service. Wireless Services. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless communications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to: • How radio spectrum is used by licensees; • The nature of the services that licensees may offer and how such services may be offered; and • Resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The Communications Act of 1934 preempts state and local regulation of market entry by, and the rates charged by, commercial mobile radio service providers, except that states may exercise authority over such things as certain billing practices and consumer-related issues. These regulations could increase the costs of our wireless operations. The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all 40 wireless licensees to meet certain build-out requirements and substantially comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934 in order to retain their licenses. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area. There is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed. You should also see the risk factor below titled “We may not fully develop our wireless services, in which case we could not meet the needs of our customers who desire packaged services.” The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings to evaluate its rules and policies regarding spectrum licensing and usage. New uses could adversely impact our utilization of our licensed spectrum and our operational costs. Commercial mobile radio service providers must implement E911 capabilities in accordance with FCC rules. Failure to deploy E911 service consistent with FCC requirements could subject us to significant fines. The FCC, together with the FAA, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities. The FCC is also considering changes to its rules regarding environmental protection as related to tower construction, which, if adopted, could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. For more information about Regulations affecting our operations, see “Competition” contained in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation.” Loss of our ETC status would disqualify us for USF subsidies. The USF pays subsidies to ETCs to support the provision of facilities-based wireline and wireless telephone service in high-cost areas. Under FCC regulations, we have qualified as a competitive ETC in the Anchorage, Fairbanks, Juneau, Matanuska-Susitna Valley, Ketchikan, and Glacier State service areas. Without ETC status, we would not qualify for USF subsidies in these areas or other rural areas where we propose to offer facilities-based wireline and wireless telephone services. Loss of our ETC status could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Failure to complete development, testing and deployment of new technology that supports new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. In addition, the technology we use may place us at a competitive disadvantage. We develop, test and deploy various new technologies and support systems intended to enhance our competitiveness by both supporting new services and features and reducing the costs associated with providing those services or features. Successful development and implementation of technology upgrades depend, in part, on the willingness of third parties to develop new applications in a timely manner. We may not successfully complete the development and rollout of new technology and related features or services in a timely manner, and they may not be widely accepted by our customers or may not be profitable, in which case we could not recover our investment in the technology. Deployment of technology supporting new service offerings may also adversely affect the performance or reliability of our networks with respect to both the new and existing services. Any resulting customer dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain customers and may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Our businesses are currently geographically concentrated in Alaska. Any deterioration in the economic conditions in Alaska could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We offer voice, data and wireless communication and video services to customers primarily in Alaska. Because of this geographic concentration, our growth and operations depend upon economic conditions in Alaska. The economy of Alaska is dependent upon natural resource industries, in particular oil production, as well as tourism, and government spending including substantial amounts for the United States military. Any deterioration in these markets could have an adverse impact on the demand for communication and cable television services and on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the customer base in Alaska is limited. Alaska has a population of approximately 670,000 people, 54% of whom are located in the Anchorage and Matanuska-Susitna Borough region. We have already achieved significant market penetration with respect to our service offerings in Anchorage and in other locations in Alaska. 41 We may not be able to continue to increase our market share of the existing markets for our services, and no assurance can be given that the Alaskan economy will continue to grow and increase the size of the markets we serve or increase the demand for the services we offer. As a result, the best opportunities for expanding our business may arise in other geographic areas such as the Lower 49 States. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive opportunities to grow our businesses outside of Alaska or that we will have the necessary expertise to take advantage of such opportunities. The markets in Alaska for voice and data communications and video services are unique and distinct within the United States due to Alaska’s large geographical size, its sparse population located in a limited number of clusters, and its distance from the rest of the United States. The expertise we have developed in operating our businesses in Alaska may not provide us with the necessary expertise to successfully enter other geographic markets. We may not fully develop our wireless services, in which case we could not meet the needs of our customers who desire such services. We offer wireless mobile services under the GCI brand by distributing other providers’ wireless mobile services and over our own facilities under the Alaska DigiTel brand. We offer wireless local telephone services over our own facilities, and have purchased personal communications system, or PCS, and local multipoint distribution system, or LMDS, wireless broadband licenses in FCC auctions covering markets in Alaska. In 2007 we acquired a substantial ownership interest in Alaska DigiTel (see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Development of our Business during the Past Fiscal Year — Alaska DigiTel Acquisition and Loan” for more information.) We have entered into an agreement to acquire the remaining ownership interest in Alaska DigiTel (see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Recent Developments — Acquisition of Remaining Alaska DigiTel Interest” for more information.) We have fewer subscribers to our wireless services than to our other service offerings. Currently the geographic coverage of our wireless services is smaller than the geographic coverage of our other services. Some of our competitors offer or propose to offer an integrated bundle of communications, entertainment and information services, including wireless services. If we are unable to expand our wireless facilities (see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Recent Developments — Wireless Business Strategy” for more information) and further develop our wireless services, we may not be able to meet the needs of customers who desire such services, and our competitors who offer these services would have an advantage. This could result in the loss of market share for our other service offerings. As a PCS and LMDS licensee, we are subject to regulation by the FCC, and must comply with certain build-out and other conditions of the licenses, as well as with the FCC’s regulations governing the PCS and LMDS services. The FCC renewed our PCS Block B license in 2005 for an additional 10-year term. We expect the FCC to renew the PCS Block A license held by our majority-owned subsidiary, Alaska DigiTel, in 2008. Our LMDS license will expire in 2008 if not renewed by the FCC. We are a member of a coalition that has petitioned the FCC for an extension of the expiration date due to the lack of suitable equipment for this bandwidth. We are unable to predict at this time whether the FCC will grant an extension of our LMDS license expiration. Prolonged service interruptions could affect our business. We rely heavily on our network equipment, communications providers, data and software to support all of our functions. We rely on our networks and the networks of others for substantially all of our revenues. We are able to deliver services only to the extent that we can protect our network systems against damage from power or communication failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other disruptions. While we endeavor to provide for failures in the network by providing back-up systems and procedures, we cannot guarantee that these back-up systems and procedures will operate satisfactorily in an emergency. Should we experience a prolonged failure, it could seriously jeopardize our ability to continue operations. In particular, should a significant service interruption occur, our ongoing customers may choose a different provider, and our reputation may be damaged, reducing our attractiveness to new customers. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers’ data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability and suffer from adverse publicity. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches. 42 If failures occur in our undersea fiber optic cable systems, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited and we could incur significant costs, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Our communications facilities include two undersea fiber optic cable systems that carry a large portion of our voice, data and Internet traffic to and from the contiguous Lower 48 States one of which provides an alternative geographically diverse backup communication facility to the other. If a failure of both sides of the ring of our undersea fiber optic facilities occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Damage to an undersea fiber optic cable system can result in significant unplanned Cost of Goods Sold which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. If a failure occurs in our satellite communications systems, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited. We serve many rural and remote Alaska locations solely via satellite communications. Each of our C-band and Ku-band satellite transponders is backed up on the same spacecraft with multiple backup transponders. The primary spacecrafts we use to provide voice, data and Internet services to our rural Alaska customers is Intelsat’s Galaxy XR for C-band and Intelsat's Horizons 1 for Ku-band, but we also lease capacity on two other spacecraft for services we provide, SES Americom’s AMC-7 and AMC-8. On Galaxy XR, we use 9 C-band transponders. Galaxy XR experienced a failure of its primary and secondary xenon ion propulsion system (“XIPS”) that maintains the satellite’s proper orbital position in 2004. The satellite is using its backup bi-propellant thrusters to maintain its orbital position. These thrusters are a space flight proven technology. The failure of the primary and secondary XIPS had no short term impact on service to our customers. Intelsat, the owner and operator of Galaxy XR, believes the satellite has sufficient fuel to continue normal operations until May 18, 2008. The terms of our Galaxy XR transponder purchase agreement extends through March 2012. Intelsat intends to replace the satellite before its estimated end-of-life. The launch of the replacement satellite, Galaxy 18, is expected to occur on May 3, 2008. We purchased a warranty with the original agreement to cover a loss of this nature. We have had an agreement in place that provides backup transponder capacity on Intelsat’s Galaxy XII and Galaxy XIII satellites in the event of a catastrophic failure of Galaxy XR. Additionally, our agreement includes backup of our Horizons 1 Ku-band transponders on the Ku-band payload of Galaxy 18. If such a failure occurs with Galaxy XR, we plan to divide our C-band network between Galaxy XII and Galaxy XIII. Galaxy XII will be moved from its current orbital slot to where Galaxy XR is currently positioned. Service may not be fully restored for up to a week or longer due to the time necessary for Intelsat to move Galaxy XII and for us to redirect earth station antennae. We have installed additional facilities at our Barrow, Nome, Kotzebue, and Bethel, Alaska earth stations to allow dual use of Galaxy XII and Galaxy XIII from those locations to help mitigate the impact of this transition. We are also reactivating our Fairbanks, Alaska gateway earth station to help share the load of our primary gateway earth stations in Eagle River, Alaska and Issaquah, Washington. We also lease one 36 MHz transponder on SES Americom's AMC-7 spacecraft. We use this transponder to distribute multi-channel, digitally encoded video programming and services to remote locations within Alaska. We may use this transponder along with two others that we reserve on AMC-7 to restore service during any fiber outage that may occur in our network. There is uncertainty whether the Galaxy 18 spacecraft will launch on schedule. The contracted provider of launch services for Galaxy 18 experienced a launch failure on January 20, 2007 that damaged the launch platform and delayed future launches scheduled prior to the Galaxy 18 launch. One more satellite is scheduled to launch March 9, 2008 and the next scheduled launch is of Galaxy 18. There is additional uncertainty that Galaxy 18 will be launched successfully and will become fully operational once in orbit. Additionally, Galaxy XR station-keeping fuel may not last the estimated or expected amount of time before the replacement spacecraft is operational. Such a loss of station-keeping fuel would cause the spacecraft to drift out of its normal orbital position and our fixed ground antennas would no longer point directly at the spacecraft causing loss of signal and thus loss of communications with the spacecraft. While we have developed contingency plans that provide for continued satellite service in the event the launch date extends beyond the Galaxy XR satellite’s end-of-life we may experience extended service outages which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 43 We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses we plan to acquire in 2008. The process of integrating the operations of Alaska DigiTel, UUI and Unicom and Alaska Wireless with ours in 2008 may cause interruptions of or loss of momentum in our business and financial performance. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the companies’ operations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also incur additional and unforeseen expenses in connection with the integration efforts. There can be no assurance that the expense savings and synergies that we anticipate from the acquisitions will be realized fully or will be realized within the expected timeframe. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply communications equipment. If we do not obtain the necessary communications equipment, we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply cable, Internet, DLPS, wireless and telephony-related equipment. If our providers of this equipment are unable to timely supply the equipment necessary to meet our needs or provide them at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to satisfy demand for our services and competitors may fulfill this demand. Due to the unique characteristics of the Alaska communications markets (i.e., remote locations, rural, satellite-served, low density populations, and our leading edge services and products), in many situations we deploy and utilize specialized, advanced technology and equipment that may not have a large market or demand. Our vendors may not succeed in developing sufficient market penetration to sustain continuing production and may fail. Vendor bankruptcy (or acquisition without continuing product support by the acquiring company) may require us to replace technology before its otherwise useful end of life due to lack of on-going vendor support and product development. We do not have insurance to cover certain risks to which we are subject, which could lead to the incurrence of uninsured liabilities that adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We are self-insured for damage or loss to certain of our transmission facilities, including our buried, undersea and above-ground transmission lines. If we become subject to substantial uninsured liabilities due to damage or loss to such facilities, our financial position, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected. We must perform impairment tests of our goodwill, cable certificate and wireless license assets on an annual basis. Impairment testing may result in a material, non-cash write-down of our cable certificate, wireless license, or goodwill assets and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we must test our goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually. The SEC Staff Announcement Topic “Use of the Residual Method to Value Acquired Assets Other than Goodwill,” requires us to apply a direct value method to determine the fair value of our intangible assets with indefinite lives other than goodwill for purposes of impairment testing. We must also recognize previously unrecognized intangible assets, if any, in the determination of fair value for impairment testing purposes. Our cable certificate and wireless license assets are our only indefinite-lived assets other than goodwill as of December 31, 2007. Our cable certificate assets were originally valued and recorded using the residual method. Our wireless license assets were originally valued using the direct value method. Impairment testing of these assets in future periods may result in a material, non-cash write-down of these assets and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our significant debt could adversely affect our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our senior notes. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt. On December 31, 2007, we had total debt of $541.4 million. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • Use of a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our senior notes, the senior secured credit facility and our other debt, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities; • Current and future debt under our senior secured credit facility will continue to be secured; • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • Restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; • Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the senior notes and our other debt; 44 • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • Limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. In addition, a substantial amount of our debt bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt, complete our planned network expansion, complete our planned acquisitions and to meet other obligations. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our future capital needs it may be necessary for us to curtail, delay or abandon our business growth plans.If we incur significant additional indebtedness to fund our plans, it could cause a decline in our credit rating and could increase our borrowing costs or limit our ability to raise additional capital. We will require a significant amount of cash for our planned wireless network expansion, acquisitions, to satisfy our debt service requirements and to meet other obligations. To meet our capital needs we may incur additional debt in the future. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash and to arrange additional financing in the future. These abilities are subject to, among other factors, our credit rating, our financial performance, general economic conditions, prevailing market conditions, the state of competition in our market, the outcome of certain legislative and regulatory issues and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our ability to obtain suitable financing when needed has become more difficult due to the downturn in economic conditions in 2008 and our failure to obtain suitable financing could, among other things, result in our inability to continue to expand our business and meet competitive challenges. If we incur significant additional indebtedness, or if we do not continue to generate sufficient cash from our operations, our credit rating could be adversely affected, which would likely increase our future borrowing costs and could affect our ability to access capital. The terms of our debt impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business and our ability to make payments on the senior notes. The indenture governing our senior notes contains and/or the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: • Incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • Pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • Make certain investments; • Create liens; • Allow restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • Sell assets; • Merge or consolidate with other entities; and • Enter into transactions with affiliates. The senior secured credit facility also requires us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including, but not limited to, minimum interest coverage ratio, maximum leverage ratio and maximum annual capital expenditures. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. All of these covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and if such events occur, we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing our senior notes and/or the senior secured credit facility. If there were an event of default under the indenture for the senior notes and/or the senior secured credit facility, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay the debt under the senior secured credit facility when it becomes due, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility could proceed against certain of our assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries that we have pledged to them as security. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments in the event of a default thereunder. 45 Concerns about health risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our wireless services. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Purported class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against numerous other wireless carriers seeking not only damages but also remedies that could increase the cost of doing business. We cannot be sure of the outcome of those cases or that the industry will not be adversely affected by litigation of this nature or public perception about health risks. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in subscribers and reduced network usage per subscriber. Further research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot be sure that additional studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Additionally, new government regulations on the use of a wireless device while driving may affect us through a reduction in subscribers and reduced network usage per subscriber. Studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. Many state and local legislative bodies have passed or proposed legislation to restrict the use of wireless telephones while driving vehicles. Concerns over safety and the effect of future legislation, if adopted and enforced in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services and decrease our revenue from customers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards against telecommunications providers, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. A significant percentage of our voting securities are owned by a small number of shareholders and these shareholders can control shareholder decisions on very important matters. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates owned 4.4% of our combined outstanding Class A and class B common stock, representing 16.9% of the combined voting power of that stock. These shareholders can significantly influence, if not control, our management policy and all fundamental corporate actions, including mergers, substantial acquisitions and dispositions, and election of directors to the Board. Corporate governance rules may impose increased costs and internal control assessment requirements on us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and the Nasdaq National Market have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. For example, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we and our auditor evaluate and report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to incur ongoing costs to comply with these rules and regulations and may incur increased legal and financial compliance costs that may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Our management has determined that as of December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework as a result of one identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. For a detailed description of this material weakness and our remediation efforts and plans, see “Part II — Item 9A — Controls and Procedures.” If the result of our remediation of the identified material weakness is not successful, or if additional material weaknesses are identified in our internal control over financial reporting, our management will be unable to report favorably as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and/or our disclosure controls and procedures, and we could be required to further implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and potentially lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. 46 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 