D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves certain risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our revenues and earnings depend substantially upon conditions in the airline industry, and a significant or prolonged downturn in the airline industry could decrease demand for our services and products. Our revenues are principally derived from the provision of MRO services to airlines, air cargo carriers, MRO service centers and the military; the manufacture of heat transfer components for use in civilian and military aircraft; and the provision of parts services for commercial, regional and charter airlines and business aircraft owners. Any downturn in the commercial aircraft industry could decrease demand for our services and products and negatively impact our financial condition. The commercial airline industry is cyclical and has historically been subject to fluctuations due to general economic and political conditions, such as fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks. Most commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules, lowered fares and implemented cost reduction initiatives. In addition, war or armed hostilities or the fear of such events, could further exacerbate many of the problems experienced as a result of terrorist attacks. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, the outbreak of SARS or other epidemic diseases such as avian influenza, or the fear of such events, could further negatively impact the airline industry. These factors, as well as increases in fuel costs, have resulted in large and, in some cases, continuing financial losses in the airline industry. Major carriers around the world have recently emerged from bankruptcy protection or are in the process of doing so. Financial losses and reduced schedules in the airline industry have resulted, and will continue to result, in reduced orders and delivery delays of new commercial aircraft, parking and retirement of older aircraft (eliminating those aircraft from maintenance needs) and delays in airlines’ purchases of aftermarket parts and service as maintenance is deferred. During periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. If demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. 2 The aerospace industry is subject to significant government regulation and oversight, and we may have to incur significant additional costs to comply with these regulations. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. We must be certified or accepted by the FAA, the United States Department of Defense, the European Aviation Safety Agency, or EASA, and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, in order to manufacture, sell and service parts used in aircraft. If any of our material certifications, authorizations or approvals are revoked or suspended, our operations will be significantly curtailed and we could be subjected to significant fines and penalties. In the future, new and more demanding government regulations may be adopted or industry oversight may be increased. We may have to incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance with new regulations or to reacquire a revoked or suspended license or approval, which could reduce our profitability. We compete with a number of established companies in all aspects of our business, many of which have significantly greater resources or capabilities than we do. The market for MRO services is highly competitive. Competition in the MRO market is based on price, quality, engineered solutions, ability to provide a broad range of services, turn-around time, and the ability to perform repairs and overhauls rapidly. Our primary MRO services competitors are the service divisions of OEMs, the in-house maintenance services of a number of commercial airlines and other independent service providers. For heat transfer component MRO services, our major competitors are the LORI Heat Transfer Center of Honeywell (Tulsa, Oklahoma) and SECAN-Honeywell (France). For APU, propeller and landing gear MRO services, our major competitors are Standard Aero Group Inc., Aerotech International Inc., Honeywell, Alameda Aerospace, Chromalloy, Messier-Dowty Aerospace (MD), AAR Corp., Hawker Pacific, APPH Ltd., Aero Precision Repair and Overhaul Company, Inc., or APRO, Aircraft Propeller Service Inc., Pacific Propeller International LLC and H&H Propeller. For our OEM heat transfer components, our major competitors are other OEMs who manufacture heat transfer components, including the Hughes-Treitler division of Ametek Inc., Lytron Inc., Hamilton Sundstrand and Honeywell. Some of our competitors are far larger, have substantially greater resources, including technical, financial, research and development, marketing and distribution capabilities than we have, and enjoy greater market recognition. These competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to price competition than us. We may not be able to offer our products as part of integrated systems to the same extent as our competitors or successfully develop or introduce new products that are more cost effective or offer better performance than those of our competitors. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The parts services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Competition in this market is based on price, quality, prompt delivery and service. Competitors in this segment include OEMs, the service divisions of large commercial airlines and other independent suppliers and distributors of parts. A number of our competitors have inherent competitive advantages. For example, we compete with the service divisions of large OEMs that in some cases have design authority with respect to their OEM products and are able to derive significant brand recognition from their OEM manufacturing activities. We also compete with the in-house service divisions of large commercial airlines, and there is a strong incentive for an airline to fully-utilize the services of its maintenance employees and facilities. 3 Further, our competitors may have additional competitive advantages, such as: · the ability to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and industry conditions or trends; · greater access to capital; · stronger relationships with customers and suppliers; · greater name recognition; and · access to superior technology and marketing resources. If we are unable to overcome these competitive disadvantages, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We derive a substantial part of our revenues from several major customers. If we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our revenues may be seriously affected. Five customers accounted for approximately 17.0%, 22.0% and 31.4% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. None of our customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in the last three fiscal years, except for one customer which accounted for 11.1% of our revenues in 2005. Our major customers may not maintain the same volume of business with us in the future. If we lose any of these customers or they reduce the amount of business they do with us, our revenues may be seriously affected. A substantial part of our revenues are from contracts with the U.S. and Israeli governments and is subject to special risks. A loss of all, or a major portion, of our revenues from government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A substantial portion of our revenues are from contracts with the U.S. and Israeli governments. Sales to the U.S. and Israeli governments accounted for approximately 4.4% and 1.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 4.0% and 1.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 11.1% and 1.2% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively. Business with the U.S. and Israeli governments, as well as with the governments of other countries, is subject to risks which are not as relevant in business with private parties. These risks include the ability of the governmental authorities to unilaterally: · suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; · terminate existing contracts, with or without cause, at any time; · reduce the value of existing contracts; · audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and · control or potentially prohibit the export of our products. A decision by a governmental authority to take any or all of the actions listed above could materially reduce our sales and profitability. Most of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Declines in military budgets may result in reduced demand for our products and manufacturing services. Any decline could result in reduction in our core business revenues and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 4 If we do not receive the governmental approvals necessary for the export of our products, our revenues may decrease. Similarly if our suppliers and partners do not receive their government approvals necessary to export their products or designs to us, our revenues may decrease and we may fail to implement our growth strategy. Under Israeli law, the export of certain of our products and know-how is subject to approval by the Israeli Ministry of Defense. To initiate sales proposals with regard to exports of our products and know-how and to export such products or know-how, we must obtain permits from the Ministry of Defense. We may not be able to receive in a timely manner all the required permits for which we may apply in the future. Similarly, under foreign laws the export of certain military products, technical designs and spare parts require the prior approval of, or export license from, such foreign governments. In order to maintain our third party production, certain co-development activities and procurements required for the performance of certain contracts, we must receive detailed technical designs, products or product parts’ samples from our strategic partners or suppliers. We may not be able to receive all the required permits and/or licenses in a timely manner. Consequently our revenues may decrease, and we may fail to implement our growth strategy. A reduced demand for replacement parts by one or more of our significant parts services customers could significantly reduce our parts services revenues. The profitability of our parts services business is driven by the needs of our customers whose demand for replacement parts is constantly fluctuating. As a result, this segment of our business is subject to a high degree of volatility, and a reduction in demand for parts by one or more of our significant clients would have an adverse affect on our operating results. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of components for our products and if we are unable to obtain these components when needed, we would experience delays in manufacturing our products and our financial results could be adversely affected. We acquire most of the components for the manufacture of our products from a limited number of suppliers, most of whom are located in Israel and the United States. Certain of these suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more components upon which we are dependent. Suppliers of some of these components require us to place orders with significant lead-time to assure supply in accordance with our requirements. We rely on Honeywell and Hamilton Sundstrand for parts for our OEM, MRO services and parts services business segments and in 2006 we entered into a five-year supply contract with Honeywell to purchase APU parts on an as-required basis. If we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of parts from Honeywell, Hamilton Sundstrand or other OEMs at commercially reasonable prices, our operations could be interrupted. Increased costs associated with supplied materials or components could increase our costs and reduce our profitability if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers. We maintain a relatively small inventory of component parts for resale and our parts services business would suffer if the supply of replacement parts was reduced or terminated by our suppliers. There are other companies that may be able to supply us with necessary component parts. However, these potential suppliers would be required to undergo FAA, EASA and OEM certification, and this would make it difficult for us to change suppliers in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may face increased costs and a reduced supply of raw materials. We may not be able to recoup future increases in the cost of raw materials or in electric power costs for our operations through price increases for our products. In recent years, the cost of raw materials used in our production has fluctuated significantly due to market and industry conditions. The cost of electric power used in our operations has also increased in the last several years. We may not be able to recoup future increases in the cost of raw materials or electric power costs through price increases for our products. 5 We face special risks from international sales operations. One or more of the risks associated with international sales may have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition. Our international sales and operations, including exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. In the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 91.7%, 90.9% and 91.6% of our sales, respectively, resulted from our international operations. This source of revenue is subject to various risks, including: · governmental embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; · changes in U.S. and foreign governmental regulations; · changes in foreign exchange rates; · tariffs; · other trade barriers; and · political, economic and social instability; and difficulties in accounts receivable collections. We may not be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations or we may encounter significant difficulties in connection with the sale of our products in international markets or one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition. We may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute our shareholders’ equity and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any other prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Future acquisitions by us could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our ordinary shares: · issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentages of ownership; · large one-time write-offs; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · contractual disputes; · risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. 6 Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. The aerospace market in which we compete is subject to technological changes, introduction of new products, change in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with technological developments and to timely address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and new technologies and by developing and introducing enhancements to our current products and new products. We may not be able to successfully develop and market enhancements to our products that will respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of such enhancements; and such enhancements may not meet the requirements of the market or achieve any significant degrees of market acceptance. If release dates of our new products or enhancements are delayed, or if when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We have fixed-price contracts with some of our customers and we bear the risk of costs in excess of our estimates. We have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our MRO and OEM customers. Pursuant to these contracts, we realize all the benefits or costs resulting from any increases or decreases in the cost of providing services to these customers. Most of our contracts do not permit us to recover for increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. Any increase in these costs could increase the cost of operating our business and reduce our profitability. Factors such as inaccurate pricing and increases in the cost of labor, materials or overhead may result in cost over-runs and losses on those agreements. We may not succeed in obtaining an agreement of a customer to reprice a particular product, and we may not be able to recoup previous losses resulting from incomplete or inaccurate engineering data. We depend on our key executives, and may not be able to hire and retain additional key employees or successfully integrate new members of our team and the loss of a key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend largely on our continued reliance on the experience and expertise of our senior management. Although we have entered into employment agreements with most members of our senior management, any of our senior managers may terminate his employment with us and seek employment with others who may seek his expertise. The loss of the expertise of any of our senior management through death, disability or termination of employment would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not the beneficiary of life or disability insurance covering any of our executives, key employees or other personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our success in recruiting, retaining and successfully integrating our management team and other personnel. If we are unable to retain employees and to attract and integrate new members of our management team, key employees or other personnel, we may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy in a timely manner. If we are unable to do so or if we were to lose the services of our senior executives or key employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce, and any interruption in the work force at our facilities could curtail our operations. We derive the majority of our sales from overhaul services for components delivered to us from time to time by our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of loaner parts for our MRO services business, an interruption of our work force due to strikes, work stoppages, shortages of appropriately skilled production and professional workers or other interruption could have a material adverse impact on both our ability to keep our customers’ aircraft in service while we perform overhaul services and customer satisfaction. 7 We depend on our manufacturing and MRO facilities, and any material damage to these facilities may adversely impact our operations. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide MRO services and to manufacture and deliver OEM products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. As a result, any material disruption of our day-today operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. We rely on our Gedera, Israel, Tulsa, Oklahoma and Kernersville and Winston-Salem, North Carolina facilities for the provision of our MRO services, the production of our OEM products and the provision of our parts services. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that significantly damaged or destroyed any of these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We use equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced, and therefore material equipment failures could cause us to be unable to meet quality or delivery expectations of our customers. Many of our service and manufacturing processes are dependent on equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced. As a result, unexpected equipment failures could result in production delays or the manufacturing of defective products. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers with respect to on-time delivery of repaired components or quality OEM products is critical. Our failure to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers could lead to the loss of one or more of our significant customers. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, which started in connection with this Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. We have potential exposure to liabilities arising under environmental laws and regulations. Our business operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters. Compliance with such laws as they relate to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances is a significant obligation for us at each of our facilities. We would be subject to serious consequences, including fines and other sanctions, and limitations on our operations due to changes to, or revocations of, the environmental permits applicable to our facilities if we fail to comply. The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs and become subject to new or increased liabilities that could increase our operating costs and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Under certain environmental laws, liability associated with investigation or remediation of hazardous substances can arise at a broad range of properties, including properties currently or formerly operated by us or our predecessors, as well as properties to which we sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, storage, or disposal. Costs and other obligations can arise from claims for toxic torts, natural resource and other damages, as well as the investigation and clean up of contamination at such properties. Under certain environmental laws, such liability may be imposed jointly and severally, so we may be responsible for more than our proportionate share and may even be responsible for the entire liability at issue. The extent of any such liability can be difficult to predict. 8 We are exposed to potential liabilities arising from product liability and warranty claims. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured, serviced or supplied by us. We believe that, in an effort to improve operating margins, some customers have delayed the replacement of parts beyond their recommended lifetime, which may undermine aircraft safety and increase our risk of liability. We cannot assure you that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future, that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims, that our insurance coverage will be adequate if claims were to arise or that we would be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business contractual disputes over warranties can arise. We may be subject to requests for cost sharing or pricing adjustments from our customers as a part of our commercial relationships with them, even though they have agreed to bear these risks. Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our ordinary shares; · de-listing of our shares from the NASDAQ Capital Market; · stock market price and volume fluctuation; and · tax liability resulted from cash distributing by our subsidiaries in U.S.A Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares by our principal shareholders may depress our share price. Our principal shareholder, Isal Amlat Investments (1993) Ltd., or Isal Amlat, beneficially owns 65.11% of our outstanding shares, of which 55.26% of our outstanding shares are held directly by TAT Industries. If they sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or if the perception exists that our principal shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time, in a place and on terms we deem appropriate. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Because we have significant operations in Israel, we may be subject to political, economic and other conditions affecting Israel that could increase our operating expenses and disrupt our business. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our executive offices, manufacturing plant and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2007. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In July 2006, extensive hostilities began along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. Since June 2007, when Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which have intensified since February 2008. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. We may be adversely affected by a change in the exchange rate of the NIS against the dollar. Because exchange rates between the NIS and the dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on our profitability and period to period comparisons of our results. Our financial statements are stated in dollars, while a portion of our expenses, primarily labor expenses, is incurred in NIS and a part of our revenues are quoted in NIS. Additionally, certain assets, as well as a portion of our liabilities, are denominated in NIS. Because exchange rates between the NIS and the dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations, particularly larger periodic devaluations, may have an impact on our profitability and period to period comparisons of our results. Our results may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such devaluation is on lagging basis), if our revenues in NIS are higher than our expenses in NIS and/or the amount of our assets in NIS are higher than our liabilities in NIS. Alternatively, our results may be adversely affected by an appreciation of the NIS in relation to the dollar (or if such appreciation is on a lagging basis), if the amount of our expenses in NIS are higher than the amount of our revenues in NIS and/or the amount of our liabilities in NIS are higher than our assets in NIS. In the year ended December 31, 2005, the NIS devaluated against the dollar by 6.8%, while in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, 2006 and 2007, the NIS appreciated against the dollar by 7.6%, 1.6%, 8.2% and 9.0%, respectively. 10 Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our employees and some of our directors and officers in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, each shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company, or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law currently does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is relatively little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. Provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. In addition, our articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult to acquire our company, such as provisions establishing a classified board. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 6.C. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Board Practices - Approval of Related Party Transactions under Israeli Law” and See Item 10.E. “Additional Information - Taxation - Israeli Tax Considerations” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Investors and our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors or asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and directors reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those and similar acts. 11 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements, must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of our company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in our company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. 