Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the Company’s control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. • Our technology solution to meet U.S. federal 2010 emissions standards may not be successful or may be more costly than planned. Most truck and engine manufacturers have chosen selective catalytic reduction (“SCR”) systems to address the 2010 emission standards. We intend to address the 2010 emissions requirements for our core applications through advances in fuel systems, air management, combustion, and engine controls. • The markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality. Our ability to be profitable depends in part on the varying conditions in the truck, bus, mid-range diesel engine, and service parts markets, which are subject to cycles in the overall business environment and are particularly sensitive to the industrial sector, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Truck and engine demand is also dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate levels, and fuel costs, among other external factors. • We operate in the highly competitive North American truck market. The North American truck market in which we operate is highly competitive. This competition results in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and adversely affects our ability to increase or maintain vehicle prices. • Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant portion of our workforce is unionized. As of October 31, 2008, approximately 64% of our hourly workers and 9% of 9 Table of Contents our salaried workers are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. Our current collective bargaining agreement with the UAW will expire in October 2010. Any UAW strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in connection with the negotiation of a new agreement or otherwise could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce structural costs and improve production efficiencies. A lengthy strike by the UAW that involves a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 1, Business, “Employees.” • Current credit market conditions may impair our access to sufficient capital to engage in financing activities. The U.S. and global economies are currently undergoing a period of economic uncertainty, and the related financial markets are experiencing unprecedented volatility. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Our financial services segment supports our manufacturing operations by providing financing to a significant portion of our dealers and retail customers. Our Financial Services segment traditionally obtains the funds to provide such financing from sales of receivables, medium and long-term debt, and equity capital and from short and long-term bank borrowings. If cash provided by operations, bank borrowings, continued sales and securitizations of receivables, and the placement of term debt does not provide the necessary liquidity, our Financial Services segment may restrict its financing of our products both at the wholesale and retail level, which may have a significant negative effect on our liquidity and results of operations. • Our liquidity position may be adversely affected by a continued downturn in our industry. Any downturn in our industry can adversely affect our operating results. In the event that industry conditions remain weak for any significant period of time, our liquidity position may be adversely affected, which may limit our ability to complete product development programs, capital expenditure programs, or other strategic initiatives at currently anticipated levels. • The loss of business from Ford could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Ford accounted for approximately 7% of our revenues for 2008, 14% of our revenues for 2007, and 12% of our revenues for 2006. In addition, Ford accounted for approximately 44%, 58%, and 61% of our diesel engine unit volume (including intercompany transactions) in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, primarily relating to the sale of our V-8 diesel engines. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 16, Commitments and contingencies, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, for information related to our pending litigation with Ford. The loss of business or further reductions in business from Ford or the early termination or non-renewal of our agreement with Ford may potentially subject us to other costs that may be material. See Note 7, Impairment of property and equipment and related charges, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, for additional information. • We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our current business strategies and initiatives. We have recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Failure to successfully manage and integrate these and potential future acquisitions and joint ventures could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. • Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Some of our suppliers are the sole source for a particular supply item. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The volatility in the financial markets and uncertainty in the automotive sector could result in exposure related to the financial viability of certain of our key third-party suppliers. 10 Table of Contents • Our business may be adversely affected by government contracting risks. We derived approximately 27% of our revenues for 2008, 4% of our revenues for 2007, and 2% of our revenues for 2006 from the U.S. government. Our existing U.S. government contracts could extend over multiple years and are conditioned upon the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis and if the congressional appropriations for a program under which we are contractors are not made, or are reduced or delayed, our contract could be cancelled or government purchases under the contract could be reduced or delayed, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Although we have multiple bids and quotes, there are no guarantees that they will be awarded to us in the future or that volumes will be similar to volumes under previously awarded contracts. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally permit the contracting government agency to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, either for the convenience of the government or for default based on our failure to perform under the contract. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to the payment of our allowable costs and an allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our government contracts were to be terminated for default, we could be exposed to liability and our ability to obtain future contracts could be adversely affected. • We are the subject of various lawsuits and governmental investigations alleging violations of federal securities laws and Delaware state law in relation to the restatement of certain previously issued financial statements. The restatement of our financial results has led to lawsuits and governmental investigations. For additional information regarding this matter, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings. • Failure to properly identify and correct material weaknesses or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we concluded that there are material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we do not correct these material weaknesses, or we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Although we consistently review and evaluate our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the sufficiency of our internal control, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such additional material weaknesses or failure to correct existing material weaknesses could adversely affect investor confidence in the Company. • We have significant under-funded postretirement obligations. The under-funded portion of our projected benefit obligation was $763 million and $197 million for pension benefits at October 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and $979 million and $1.1 billion for postretirement healthcare benefits at October 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Moreover, we have assumed expected rates of return on plan assets and growth rates of retiree medical costs and the failure to achieve the expected rates of return and growth rates could have an adverse impact on our under-funded postretirement obligations, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The volatility in the financial markets affects the valuation of our pension assets and liabilities, resulting in potentially higher pension costs and higher levels of under-funding in future periods. • Our substantial debt could require us to use a significant portion of our cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations and may limit our operating flexibility. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness which could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limit our ability to use operating cash flows in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a portion of these funds to make significantly higher interest payments on our indebtedness; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, engineering and product development costs, and other general corporate requirements; • Limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities as a result of various restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; and 11 Table of Contents • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. • The costs associated with complying with environmental and safety regulations could lower our margins. We, like other truck and engine manufacturers, continue to face heavy governmental regulation of our products, especially in the areas of environment and safety. We have incurred engineering and product development costs and tooling costs to design our engine product lines to meet new U.S. EPA and CARB and other applicable foreign government emission standards. Complying with environmental and safety requirements adds to the cost of our products and increases the capital-intensive nature of our business. • We are exposed to political, economic, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. We have significant operations in foreign countries, primarily in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and India. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic, and other risks that are inherent in operating in those countries and internationally. These risks include, among others: • Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • Tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements for taxes on foreign earnings; • Difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; • Currency exchange rate risk; and • Changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. • Our ability to use net operating loss (“NOL”) carryovers to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is a change in our ownership or a failure to generate sufficient taxable income. Presently, there is no annual limitation on our ability to use NOLs to reduce future income taxes. However, if an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, occurs with respect to our capital stock, our ability to use NOLs would be limited to specific annual amounts. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points of our total capital stock in a three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use domestic NOLs to reduce taxable income is generally limited to an annual amount based on the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate. NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the 20-year carryforward period and can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryover period subject to the limitation in each year. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. If more than a 50% ownership change were to occur, use of our NOLs to reduce payments of federal taxable income may be deferred to later years within the 20-year carryover period; however, if the carryover period for any loss year expires, the use of the remaining NOLs for the loss year will be prohibited. If we should fail to generate a sufficient level of taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carryforward periods, then we will lose the ability to apply the NOLs as offsets to future taxable income. • Adverse resolution of litigation may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Note 16, Commitments and contingencies, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of 2008 that remain unresolved. 