Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Our Business and Future Results Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We face competition that may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. There is substantial competition in the telecommunications and entertainment industries. Through mergers and various service integration strategies, major providers are striving to provide integrated communications services offerings within and across geographic markets. We face increasing wireless services competition from the expected entrance of Verizon into the Alaska market and increasing video services competition from DBS providers. 31 We expect competition to increase as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, services and products. We cannot predict which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors. To the extent we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to changes in competitive factors in our industry and in our markets, we could lose market share or experience a decline in our revenue and net income. Competitive conditions create a risk of market share loss and the risk that customers shift to less profitable lower margin services. Competitive pressures also create challenges for our ability to grow new businesses or introduce new services successfully and execute our business plan. Most of our business segments also face the risk of potential price cuts by our competitors that could materially adversely affect our market share and gross margins. For more information about competition by segment, see the sections titled “Competition” included in “Item 1 — Business — Narrative Description of our Business — Description of our Business by Reportable Segment.” If we experience low or negative rates of subscriber acquisition or high rates of turnover, our financial performance will be impaired. We are in the business of selling communications and entertainment services to subscribers, and our economic success is based on our ability to retain current subscribers and attract new subscribers. If we are unable to retain and attract subscribers, our financial performance will be impaired. Our rates of subscriber acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of competitive factors including the size of our service areas, network performance and reliability issues, our device and service offerings, subscribers’ perceptions of our services, and customer care quality. Managing these factors and subscribers’ expectations is essential in attracting and retaining subscribers. Although we have implemented programs to attract new subscribers and address subscriber turnover, we cannot assure you that these programs or our strategies to address subscriber acquisition and turnover will be successful. A high rate of turnover or low or negative rate of new subscriber acquisition would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of subscribers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain or maintain the roaming services we need from other carriers to remain competitive. AT&T Wireless and Verizon, who is expected to be a competitor starting in 2013, have national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. The networks we operate do not, by themselves, provide national coverage and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services to us. We currently rely on roaming agreements with several carriers for the majority of our roaming services. We believe that the rates charged to us by some of these carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. We do not currently have LTE data agreements with any carriers that are currently providing these services. The FCC has adopted rules requiring commercial mobile radio service providers to provide automatic roaming, upon request, for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC has also adopted rules generally requiring carriers to offer data roaming services. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit recently upheld the FCC’s data roaming order from a challenge by Verizon Wireless. These orders, however, do not provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice, SMS text messaging or data services and require that roaming complaints be resolved on a case-by-case basis, based on a non-exclusive list of factors that can be taken into account in determining the reasonableness of particular conduct or rates. If we were unexpectedly to lose the benefit of one or more key roaming or wholesale agreements, we may be unable to obtain similar replacement agreements and as a result may be unable to continue providing nationwide voice and data roaming services for our customers or may be unable to provide such services on a cost-effective basis. Our inability to obtain new or replacement roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our turnover and decrease our revenues, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 We may be unable to complete our pending transactions or if completed we may not be able to successfully manage the new operations. The formation, with ACS, of AWN is crucial to our strategy to remain competitive in wireless services against the national wireless carriers. We anticipate being granted approval by the FCC and having the ability to close on the transactions contemplated in the Wireless Agreement by the end of the second quarter of 2013. A delay or failure to gain FCC approval or the occurrence of any other event delaying or causing a failure to complete the AWN transaction may cause us to incur additional and unforeseen expenses and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we complete the AWN transaction we may not be able to successfully integrate the network facilities or recognize the expected synergies which may cause interruptions of or loss of momentum in our business and financial performance. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with this transaction may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also incur additional and unforeseen expenses in connection with the integration efforts. There can be no assurance that the expense savings and synergies that we anticipate from the transaction will be realized fully or will be realized within the expected timeframe. If we complete the Denali Media transaction we may not be able to successfully manage the broadcast stations or recognize the expected synergies with our video services business which may cause interruptions of or loss of momentum in our business and financial performance. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with this transaction may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also incur additional and unforeseen expenses in connection with the management efforts. There can be no assurance that the expense savings and synergies that we anticipate from the transaction will be realized fully or will be realized within the expected timeframe. Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation. Applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Wireless Services. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless communications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to: · How radio spectrum is used by licensees; · The nature of the services that licensees may offer and how such services may be offered; and · Resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, preempts state and local regulation of market entry by, and the rates charged by, commercial mobile radio service providers, except that states may exercise authority over such things as certain billing practices and consumer-related issues. These regulations could increase the costs of our wireless operations. The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all wireless licensees to meet certain build-out requirements and substantially comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in order to retain their licenses. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area. There is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed. The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings to evaluate its rules and policies regarding spectrum licensing and usage. Changes proposed by the FCC could adversely impact our utilization of our licensed spectrum and our operation costs. 33 Commercial mobile radio service providers must implement E911 capabilities in accordance with FCC rules. Failure to deploy E911 service consistent with FCC requirements could subject us to significant fines. The FCC, together with the Federal Aviation Administration, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities. The FCC has adopted rule changes that require local notice in any community in which it is seeking FCC Antenna Structure Registration to build a tower. Local notice provides members of the community with an opportunity to comment on or challenge the tower construction for environmental or other reasons. This rule change could cause delay for certain tower construction projects. Internet Services. Proposals may be made before Congress and the FCC to mandate cable operators provide “open access” over their cable systems to Internet service providers. As of the date of this report, the FCC has declined to impose such requirements. If the FCC or other authorities mandate additional access to our cable systems, we cannot predict the effect that this would have on our Internet service offerings. Changes in the regulatory environment relating to the Internet access market, including changes in legislation, FCC regulation, judicial action or local regulation that affect communications costs or increase competition from the ILEC or other communications services providers, could adversely affect the prices at which we sell Internet services. Video Services. The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at various levels, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. The law permits certified local franchising authorities to order refunds of rates paid in the previous 12-month period determined to be in excess of the reasonable rates. It is possible that rate reductions or refunds of previously collected fees may be required of us in the future. Currently, pursuant to Alaska law, the basic video rates in Juneau are the only rates in Alaska subject to regulation by the local franchising authority; the rates in Juneau were reviewed and approved by the RCA in July 2010. Other existing federal regulations, currently the subject of judicial, legislative, and administrative review, could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which video systems operate. Neither the outcome of these proceedings nor their impact upon the cable television industry in general, or on our activities and prospects in the cable television business in particular, can be predicted at this time. There can be no assurance that future regulatory actions taken by Congress, the FCC or other federal, state or local government authorities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Local Access Services. Our success in the local telephone market depends on our continued ability to obtain interconnection, access and related services from local exchange carriers on terms that are reasonable and that are based on the cost of providing these services. Our local telephone services business faces the risk of unfavorable changes in regulation or legislation or the introduction of new regulations. Our ability to provide service in the local telephone market depends on our negotiation or arbitration with local exchange carriers to allow interconnection to the carrier’s existing local telephone network, to establish dialing parity, to obtain access to rights-of-way, to resell services offered by the local exchange carrier, and in some cases, to allow the purchase, at cost-based rates, of access to UNEs. In some Alaska markets, it also depends on our ability to gain interconnection at economic costs. Future negotiations or arbitration proceedings with respect to new or existing markets could result in a change in our cost of serving these markets via the facilities of the ILEC or via wholesale offerings. For more information about Regulations affecting our operations, see “Competition” contained in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation.” 34 Loss of our ETC status would disqualify us for USF support. The USF pays support to ETCs to support the provision of facilities-based wireline and wireless telephone service in high cost areas. If we were to lose our ETC status in any of the study areas where we are currently an authorized ETC, we would be ineligible to receive USF support for providing service in that area. Loss of our ETC status could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Revenues and accounts receivable from USF support may be reduced or lost. We receive support from each of the various USF programs: high cost, low income, rural health care, and schools and libraries. This support was 19%, 19%, and 18% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We had USF net receivables of $70.1 million and $69.8 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The programs are subject to change by regulatory actions taken by the FCC or legislative actions. For example, on November 29, 2011, the FCC published a final rule to reform the methodology for distributing USF high cost support for voice and broadband services, as well as to the access charge regime for terminating traffic between carriers. As described further in “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” the reform changes reduced our current and future high cost support revenue. Changes to any of the USF programs that we participate in could result in a material decrease in revenue and accounts receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. See “Description of Our Business by Reportable Segment — Regulation — Wireless Services and Products — Universal Service” and “Description of Our Business by Reportable Segment — Regulation — Wireline Voice Services and Products — Universal Service” for more information. Programming expenses for our video services are increasing, which could adversely affect our business. We expect programming expenses for our video services to continue to increase in the foreseeable future. The multichannel video provider industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, especially sports programming. In addition, as we add programming to our video services or if we choose to distribute existing programming to our customers through additional delivery platforms, we may incur increased programming expenses. We are not making payments on a per subscriber basis to local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast network programming to our video services customers but there can be no assurance that we will continue to avoid such payment. We expect to continue to be subject to demands for payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. If we are unable to raise our customers’ rates or offset such programming cost increases through the sale of additional services, the increasing cost of programming could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Moreover, as our contracts with content providers expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms or that they will be renewed at all, in which case we may be unable to provide such content as part of our video services and our business could be adversely affected. The decline in our Consumer, Network Access and Commercial voice services’ results of operations, which include long-distance and local access services, may accelerate. We expect our Consumer, Network Access and Commercial voice services’ results of operations, which include long-distance and local access services, will continue to decline. As competition from wireless carriers, such as ourselves, increases we expect our local access services and long-distance subscribers will continue to decline and possibly accelerate. Additionally, we do not expect to increase the rates charged to our remaining subscribers resulting in decreasing results of operations. We expect to continue to strategically use certain marketing and bundling strategies to slow the decline but we do not expect these strategies will significantly impact or stop the decline. 35 We may not be able to satisfy the requirements of our participation in a New Markets Tax Credit program for funding our TERRA-NW project. As of December 31, 2012, we have entered into three separate arrangements under the NMTC program with US Bancorp to help fund various phases of our TERRA-NW project. In connection with the NMTC transactions we received proceeds which are restricted for use on TERRA-NW. The NMTCs are subject to 100% recapture of the tax credit for a period of seven years as provided in the Internal Revenue Code. We are required to be in compliance with various regulations and contractual provisions that apply to the NMTC arrangements. We have agreed to indemnify US Bancorp for any loss or recapture of its $56.0 million in NMTCs until such time as our obligation to deliver tax benefits is relieved. Non-compliance with applicable requirements could result in projected tax benefits not being realized by US Bancorp and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Failure to complete development, testing and deployment of a new technology that supports new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. In addition, the technology we use may place us at a competitive disadvantage. We develop, test and deploy various new technologies and support systems intended to enhance our competitiveness by both supporting new services and features and reducing the costs associated with providing those services or features. Successful development and implementation of technology upgrades depend, in part, on the willingness of third parties to develop new applications in a timely manner. We may not successfully complete the development and rollout of new technology and related features or services in a timely manner, and they may not be widely accepted by our customers or may not be profitable, in which case we could not recover our investment in the technology. Deployment of technology supporting new service offerings may also adversely affect the performance or reliability of our networks with respect to both the new and existing services. Any resulting customer dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain customers and may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. In addition to introducing new technologies and offerings, we must phase out outdated and unprofitable technologies and services. If we are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, we could experience reduced profits. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the current continued economic slowdown in the United States, could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult for us to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. The government has taken various measures in an attempt to help improve the economy, however, we are unable to predict the success or outcome of such programs. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. Our business is geographically concentrated in Alaska. Any deterioration in the economic conditions in Alaska could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We offer voice, data and wireless communication and video services to customers primarily in Alaska. Because of this geographic concentration, our growth and operations depend upon economic conditions in Alaska. The economy of Alaska is dependent upon natural resource industries, in particular oil production, as well as tourism, and government spending, including substantial amounts for the United States military. Any deterioration in these markets or the occurrence of a single disruptive event, such as a shut-down of the TransAlaska Pipeline System, could have an adverse impact on the demand for communication and video services and on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the customer base in Alaska is limited. Alaska has a population of approximately 732,000 people, 54% of whom are located in the Anchorage and Matanuska-Susitna Borough region. We have already achieved significant market penetration with respect to our service offerings in Anchorage and in other locations in Alaska. 36 We may not be able to continue to increase our market share of the existing markets for our services, and no assurance can be given that the Alaskan economy will continue to grow and increase the size of the markets we serve or increase the demand for the services we offer. As a result, the best opportunities for expanding our business may arise in other geographic areas such as the lower 49 states. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive opportunities to grow our businesses outside of Alaska or that we will have the necessary expertise to take advantage of such opportunities. The markets in Alaska for voice, data and wireless communications and video services are unique and distinct within the United States due to Alaska’s large geographical size, its sparse population located in a limited number of clusters, and its distance from the rest of the United States. The expertise we have developed in operating our businesses in Alaska may not provide us with the necessary expertise to successfully enter other geographic markets. See the section “Item 1 — Business — Geographic Concentration and the Alaska Economy” for more information. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or breaches of network or information technology security could have an adverse effect on our business. Our technical infrastructure (including our communications network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as service activation, billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power surges or outages, natural disasters, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing or similar events. Unanticipated problems at our facilities or with our technical infrastructure, system or equipment failures, hardware or software failures or defects, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause network service interruptions. Unauthorized access to or use of customer or account information, including credit card or other personal data, could result in harm to our customers and legal actions against us, and could damage our reputation. In addition, earthquakes, floods, fires and other unforeseen natural disasters or events could materially disrupt our business operations or our provision of service in one or more markets. Costs we incur to restore, repair or replace our network or technical infrastructure, as well as costs associated with detecting, monitoring or reducing the incidence of unauthorized use, may be substantial and increase our cost of providing service. Any failure in or interruption of systems that we or third parties maintain to support ancillary functions, such as billing, point of sale, inventory management, customer care and financial reporting, could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Prolonged service interruptions could affect our business. We rely heavily on our network equipment, communications providers, data and software to support all of our functions. We rely on our networks and the networks of others for substantially all of our revenues. We are able to deliver services only to the extent that we can protect our network systems against damage from power or communication failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other disruptions. While we endeavor to provide for failures in the network by providing back-up systems and procedures, we cannot guarantee that these back-up systems and procedures will operate satisfactorily in an emergency. Should we experience a prolonged failure, it could seriously jeopardize our ability to continue operations. In particular, should a significant service interruption occur, our ongoing customers may choose a different provider, and our reputation may be damaged, reducing our attractiveness to new customers. 37 If failures occur in our undersea fiber optic cable systems or our TERRA-SW facility and its extensions, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited and we could incur significant costs, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Our communications facilities include undersea fiber optic cable systems that carry a large portion of our traffic to and from the contiguous lower 48 states one of which provides an alternative geographically diverse backup communication facility to the other. Our facilities also include TERRA-SW and its extensions which are an unringed facility operating in a remote environment and are at times difficult to access for repairs. If a failure of both sides of the ring of our undersea fiber optic facilities or of our unringed TERRA-SW facility and its extensions occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Damage to an undersea fiber optic cable system or TERRA-SW and its extensions could result in significant unplanned expense which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. If a failure occurs in our satellite communications systems, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited. Our communications facilities include satellite transponders that we use to serve many rural and remote Alaska locations. Each of our C-band and Ku-band satellite transponders is backed up using on-board transponder redundancy. In the event of a complete spacecraft failure the services are restored using capacity on other spacecraft that are held in reserve. If a failure of our satellite transponders occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply communications equipment. If we do not obtain the necessary communications equipment, we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply wireless, Internet, video and other telephony-related equipment. If our providers of this equipment are unable to timely supply the equipment necessary to meet our needs or provide them at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to satisfy demand for our services and competitors may fulfill this demand. Due to the unique characteristics of the Alaska communications markets (i.e., remote locations, rural, satellite-served, low density populations, and our leading edge services and products), in many situations we deploy and utilize specialized, advanced technology and equipment that may not have a large market or demand. Our vendors may not succeed in developing sufficient market penetration to sustain continuing production and may fail. Vendor bankruptcy, or acquisition without continuing product support by the acquiring company, may require us to replace technology before its otherwise useful end of life due to lack of on-going vendor support and product development. The suppliers and vendors on which we rely may also be subject to litigation with respect to technology on which we depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement. Such claims have been growing rapidly in the communications industry. We are unable to predict whether our business will be affected by any such litigation. We expect our dependence on key suppliers to continue as they develop and introduce more advanced generations of technology. We do not have insurance to cover certain risks to which we are subject, which could lead to the incurrence of uninsured liabilities that adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. As is typical in the communications industry, we are self-insured for damage or loss to certain of our transmission facilities, including our buried, undersea and above-ground fiber optic cable systems. If we become subject to substantial uninsured liabilities due to damage or loss to such facilities, our financial position, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected. 38 Our significant debt and capital lease obligations could adversely affect our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our Senior Notes, Senior Credit Facility, other debt or capital leases. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt and capital lease obligations. On December 31, 2012, we had total debt of $877.1 million and total capital lease obligations of $80.6 million. We expect to fund our $100.0 million purchase of certain wireless assets from ACS and the $50.0 million working capital line of credit to AWN according to the Wireless Agreement by increasing our total debt. Our high level of debt and capital lease obligations could have important consequences, including the following: · Use of a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our Senior Notes, Senior Credit Facility, other debt and capital leases, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other business activities; · Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · Restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; · Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes, Senior Credit Facility, other debt and capital lease obligations; · Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and capital lease obligations; and · Limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and to meet other obligations. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our future capital needs it may be necessary for us to curtail, delay or abandon our business growth plans. If we incur significant additional indebtedness to fund our plans, it could cause a decline in our credit rating and could increase our borrowing costs or limit our ability to raise additional capital. We will continue to require a significant amount of cash to satisfy our debt service requirements and to meet other obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash and to arrange additional financing in the future. These abilities are subject to, among other factors, our credit rating, our financial performance, general economic conditions, prevailing market conditions, the state of competition in our market, the outcome of certain legislative and regulatory issues and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may be unable to obtain additional financing as needed to close our AWN transaction. We expect to fund our $100.0 million purchase of certain wireless assets from ACS and the $50.0 million working capital line of credit to AWN according to the Wireless Agreement by increasing our total debt. It is difficult to predict future debt market conditions and whether we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Depending upon market conditions, any additional financing we might seek could be with rates and terms significantly less favorable than those contained in our outstanding debt instruments. Other factors, such as a rating downgrade, could further impact our potential access to financing sources. The failure to raise sufficient funds on reasonable terms could cause us to not close our AWN Transaction which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 39 The terms of our debt impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business and our ability to make payments on the Senior Notes. The indentures governing our Senior Notes and/or the credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facility and other loans contain various covenants that could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. All of these covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and if such events occur, we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indentures governing our Senior Notes and/or the Senior Credit Facility. If there were an event of default under the indentures for the Senior Notes and/or the Senior Credit Facility, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay the debt under the Senior Credit Facility when it becomes due, the lenders under the Senior Credit Facility could proceed against certain of our assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries that we have pledged to them as security. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments in the event of a default thereunder. Any significant impairment of our indefinite-lived intangible assets would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance. We had $294.9 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2012, consisting of cable certificates of $191.6 million, goodwill of $77.3 million and wireless licenses of $26.0 million. Our cable certificates are our largest indefinite-lived intangible asset and represent agreements with government entities to construct and operate a video business. Our wireless licenses are from the FCC and give us the right to provide wireless service within a certain geographical area. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired in connection with a business acquisition. If we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect our operations, we may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment during the fourth quarter and at any time upon the occurrence of certain events or substantive changes in circumstances that indicate the assets might be impaired. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and/or the indefinite-lived intangible assets, as appropriate, and the fair value of the goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets, in the period in which the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future operating performance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies. Any changes to key assumptions, or actual performance compared with those assumptions, about our business and its future prospects or other assumptions could affect the fair value, resulting in an impairment charge. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. At December 31, 2012, we have tax net operating loss carryforwards of $293.3 million for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, under the Internal Revenue Code, we may carry forward these net operating losses in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. If we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related Treasury regulations at a time when our market capitalization is below a certain level, our ability to use the net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited. This limit could impact the timing of the usage of the net operating loss carryforwards, thus accelerating cash tax payments or causing net operating loss carryforwards to expire prior to their use, which could affect the ultimate realization of that deferred tax asset. 40 Concerns about health risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our wireless services. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Purported class actions and other lawsuits have been filed from time to time against other wireless companies seeking not only damages but also remedies that could increase the cost of doing business. We cannot be sure of the outcome of any such cases or that the industry will not be adversely affected by litigation of this nature or public perception about health risks. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in subscribers. Further research and studies are ongoing, with no linkage between health risks and mobile phone use established to date by a credible public source. However, we cannot be sure that additional studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Additionally, new government regulations on the use of a wireless device while driving may affect us through a reduction in usage revenue. Studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. Many state and local legislative bodies, including Alaska’s, have passed legislation to restrict the use of wireless telephones while driving vehicles. In Alaska all drivers are banned from texting while driving. Concerns over safety and the effect of additional future legislation, if adopted and enforced in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. Litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. A significant percentage of our voting securities are owned by a small number of shareholders and these shareholders can control shareholder decisions on very important matters. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates owned 11% of our combined outstanding Class A and Class B common stock, representing 22% of the combined voting power of that stock. These shareholders can significantly influence, if not control, our management policy and all fundamental corporate actions, including mergers, substantial acquisitions and dispositions, and election of directors to the Board. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 