Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements; Risk Factors This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, and such forward-looking statements only speak as of the date hereof. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, including descriptions of our business strategy. These statements often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” or similar expressions. These statements are based on assumptions that we have made in light of our experience in the industry as well as our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments, and other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. As you read and consider the information contained herein, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Some of these factors include: Risks that Relate to Our Delay in Filing Timely Reports with the SEC, the Restatement of Our Consolidated Financial Statements, Accounting and Internal Controls, Our De-listing from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), and Our Trading on the Over-the-Counter Market (“OTC”). • We are the subject of various lawsuits and governmental investigations alleging violations of federal securities laws and Delaware state law in relation to the restatement of our financial statements. The restatement of our financial results has led to lawsuits and governmental investigations. For additional information regarding this matter see Item 3, Legal Proceedings. • We may have difficulty maintaining existing business and may experience a reduction in our credit rating. We may have difficulty maintaining existing business and may experience a reduction in our credit rating, which could have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, (i) reducing our revenues if existing and potential customers hesitate to, or decide not to, purchase our products or services, (ii) increasing our costs or decreasing our liquidity if suppliers desire a change in existing payment terms, and (iii) increasing our borrowing costs or negatively affecting our ability to obtain new financings on acceptable terms or at all if rating agencies downgrade our credit ratings. • Failure to properly implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we do not correct these material weaknesses or we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we have additional material weaknesses 7 Table of Contents in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Although we consistently review and evaluate our internal control systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the sufficiency of our internal control, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such additional material weaknesses could adversely affect investor confidence in the company. • Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC and, as a result, stockholders may encounter difficulties in disposing of, or obtaining accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. Due to the delays in filing our periodic reports with the SEC, the NYSE de-listed our common stock effective February 14, 2007. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC. There is currently an active trading market for the common stock; however, there can be no assurance that an active trading market will be maintained. Trading of securities on the OTC is generally limited and is effected on a less regular basis than on other exchanges or quotation systems, such as the NYSE, and accordingly investors who own or purchase common stock will find that the liquidity or transferability of the common stock may be limited. Additionally, a shareholder may find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. Although we intend to seek to have our common stock listed on a national security exchange promptly after filing our delayed periodic reports with the SEC, there can be no assurance that our common stock will ever be included for trading on any stock exchange or through any other quotation system, including, without limitation, the NYSE. Risks that Relate to Business Operations and Liquidity. • The markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality. Our ability to be profitable depends in part on the varying conditions in the truck, bus, mid-range diesel engine, and service parts markets, which are subject to cycles in the overall business environment and are particularly sensitive to the industrial sector, which generates a significant portion of the freight tonnage hauled. Truck and engine demand is also dependent on general economic conditions, interest rate levels, and fuel costs, among other external factors. • We operate in the highly competitive North American truck market. The North American truck market in which we operate is highly competitive. This competition results in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and adversely affects our ability to increase or maintain vehicle prices. • Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a significant portion of our workforce is unionized. As of October 31, 2007, approximately 67% of our hourly workers and 11% of our salaried workers are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. Our current collective bargaining agreement with the UAW will expire October 2010. Any UAW strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in connection with the negotiation of a new agreement or otherwise could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce structural costs and improve production efficiencies. A lengthy strike by the UAW that involves a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. See Item 1, Business, “Employees.” • The loss of business from Ford, our largest customer, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Ford accounted for approximately 14% of our revenues for 2007, 12% of our revenues for 2006, and 19% of our revenues for 2005. In addition, Ford accounted for approximately 58%, 61%, and 68% of our diesel engine unit volume (including 8 Table of Contents intercompany transactions) in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, primarily relating to the sale of our V-8 diesel engines. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 16, Commitments and contingencies, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, for information related to our pending litigation with Ford. • The costs associated with complying with environmental and safety regulations could lower our margins. We, like other truck and engine manufacturers, continue to face heavy governmental regulation of our products, especially in the areas of environment and safety. We have incurred engineering and product development costs and tooling costs to design our engine product lines to meet new U.S. EPA and CARB and other applicable foreign government emission standards. Complying with environmental and safety requirements adds to the cost of our products and increases the capital-intensive nature of our business. • Our liquidity position may be adversely affected by a continued downturn in our industry. Any downturn in our industry can adversely affect our operating results. In the event that industry conditions remain weak for any significant period of time, our liquidity position may be adversely affected, which may limit our ability to complete product development programs, capital improvement programs, or other strategic initiatives at currently anticipated levels. • Our business could be negatively impacted in the event NFC is unable to access sufficient capital to engage in its financing activities. NFC supports our manufacturing operations by providing financing to a significant portion of our dealers and retail customers. NFC traditionally obtains the funds to provide such financing from sales of receivables, medium and long-term debt, and equity capital and from short and long-term bank borrowings. If cash provided by operations, bank borrowings, continued sales and securitizations of receivables, and the placement of term debt does not provide the necessary liquidity, NFC may restrict its financing of Navistar, Inc. products both at the wholesale and retail level. • We have significant under-funded postretirement obligations. The under-funded portion of our accumulated benefit obligation was $197 million and $865 million for pension benefits at October 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and $1.1 billion and $1.7 billion for postretirement healthcare benefits at October 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Moreover, we have assumed expected rates of return on plan assets and growth rates of retiree medical costs and the failure to achieve the expected rates of return and growth rates could have an adverse impact on our under-funded postretirement obligations, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. • Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to a supply shortage. We obtain materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Some of our suppliers are the sole source for a particular supply item. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. • Our ability to use net operating loss (“NOL”) carryovers to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is a change in our ownership or a failure to generate sufficient taxable income. Presently, there is no annual limitation on our ability to use NOLs to reduce future income taxes. However, if an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, occurs with respect to our capital stock, our ability to use NOLs would be limited to specific annual amounts. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points of our total capital stock in a three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use domestic NOLs to reduce taxable income is generally limited to an annual amount based on the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate. NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the 20-year carryforward period and can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryover period subject to the limitation in each year. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an 9 Table of Contents ownership change would not be affected. If more than a 50% ownership change were to occur, use of our NOLs to reduce payments of federal taxable income may be deferred to later years within the 20-year carryover period; however, if the carryover period for any loss year expires, the use of the remaining NOLs for the loss year will be prohibited. If we should fail to generate a sufficient level of taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carryforward periods, then we will lose the ability to apply the NOLs as offsets to future taxable income. • We are exposed to political, economic, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. We have significant operations in foreign countries, primarily in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and India. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic, and other risks that are inherent in operating in those countries and internationally. These risks include, among others: • Trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements • Tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S. and the imposition of withholding requirements for taxes on foreign earnings • Difficulty in staffing and managing international operations and the application of foreign labor regulations • Currency exchange rate risk • Changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. • We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our current business strategies and initiatives. We have recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to successfully manage and integrate these and potential future acquisitions and joint ventures could materially harm our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. • Our substantial debt could require us to use a significant portion of our cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations and may limit our operating flexibility. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness which could: • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions • Limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a portion of these funds to make significantly higher interest payments on our indebtedness • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, engineering and product development costs, and other general corporate requirements • Limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities as a result of various restrictive covenants in our indebtedness • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. • Adverse resolution of litigation may adversely affect our operating results, cash flows, or financial condition. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of complex legal proceedings are often uncertain and difficult to predict. An unfavorable outcome of a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Note 16, Commitments and contingencies, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 10 Table of Contents All future written and oral forward-looking statements by us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to above. Except for our ongoing obligations to disclose material information as required by the federal securities laws, we do not have any obligations or intention to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances in the future or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of 2007 that remain unresolved. 