D. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from results projected in any forward-looking statement in this report. These risks should be carefully considered because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The following factors contain certain forward-looking statements involving risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business There is a risk to our operating as a going-concern. If we cannot fund our operations and/or liabilities from revenues or financing efforts, we may have to change our business plan, significantly reduce or suspend our operations, sell or merge our business Our financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we are a going concern and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business; however, certain events and 4 conditions cast substantial doubt on this assumption. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a loss of $12,796,000 and had working capital of $7,625,000, an accumulated deficit of $89,913,000 and shareholders equity of $12,223,000 at year end. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had a loss of $8,247,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006 and had a working capital of $5,245,000, an accumulated deficit of $77,055,000 and a shareholders’ equity of $7,464,000 at year-end. Operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 have been funded primarily from the issuance of capital stock and the continued support of creditors. Management has continued to take steps to try to improve our financial results and cash flows. These steps include liquidation of non-core investments and pursuing equity financing to fund working capital requirements. Since January 2007, we have raised approximately $13,690,000 of debt and equity financing to fund working capital requirements. Nonetheless, we may need to seek additional sources of debt and/or equity financing in the future to fund our operations, liabilities and working capital requirements. The auditors' report attached to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, which is included in this Form 20-F, includes an explanatory paragraph that states that as we have suffered recurring losses from operations, substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The audited consolidated financial statements included with this Form 20-F do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not reflect adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities, the reported revenues and expenses and balance sheet classifications used that would be necessary if the going concern assumption were not appropriate. Such adjustments could be material. We have a history of operating losses which are likely to continue unless we significantly increase sales volume and maintain fixed and variable costs We incurred a net loss of $12,796,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to net loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 of $8,247,000 (including write downs of property, plant and equipment of $Nil and $137,000, respectively). Operating losses (gross profit less selling, general and administrative expenses) were $13,117,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $7,392,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006. We will likely incur additional losses for fiscal 2008. We believe that to operate at a profit we must significantly increase the sales volume for our products, achieve and maintain efficiencies in operations, maintain fixed costs at or near current levels and avoid significant increases in variable costs relating to production, marketing and distribution. Our ability to significantly increase sales from current levels will depend primarily on success in maintaining and/or increasing market share and availability for our Clearly Canadian® sparkling flavoured water and expanding distribution of our other beverage product lines into new geographic distribution areas, particularly in the United States and Canada. Our ability to significantly increase sales from current levels will also depend on success in maintaining and/or increasing market share and availability of our snack food and organic baby food lines of products recently acquired as part of our recent corporate acquisitions. Our ability to successfully enter new distribution areas will, in turn, depend on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the continued demand for our current brands and products in target markets, the ability to price our products at levels competitive with competing products, the ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors in each geographic area of distribution and the ability in the future to create, develop and successfully introduce new brands and products. Dependence on key management employees Our business is dependent upon the continued support of existing senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Robert Genovese, and our President, David Reingold. Mr. Genovese was appointed as our Chief Executive Officer on February 26, 2008. Mr. Reingold was appointed our President on May 29, 2007. We do not maintain key person insurance on the lives of either Mr. Genovese or Mr. Reingold. The loss of Mr. Genovese or Mr. Reingold, or any other key members of our existing management team, could adversely affect our business and prospects. 5 Our operations may be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation laws and other laws or policies of Canada, the United States or other countries Our operations are carried out primarily in Canada and in the U.S., with less significant operations in other countries. Such operations and the associated capital investments could be adversely affected by exchange controls, currency fluctuations, taxation laws and other laws or policies of Canada, the United States and other countries affecting foreign trade, investment and taxation, which, in turn, could affect our current or future foreign operations. Our future operating results are subject to a number of uncertainties Our future operating results are subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to market our products and to develop and introduce new products, our ability to penetrate new markets, the marketing efforts of distributors and retailers of our products, most of which also distribute or sell products that are competitive with our products, the number, quantity and marketing forces behind products introduced by competitors and laws and regulations and any changes thereto, especially those that may affect the way in which our products are marketed and produced, as well as laws or regulations that are enforceable by such regulatory authorities as the Canadian Food Inspection Agency and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Enforcement of civil liabilities As Canadian citizens and residents, some of our directors and officers may not subject themselves to U.S. legal proceedings so that recovery on judgments issued by U.S. courts may be difficult or impossible. While reciprocal enforcement of judgment legislation exists between Canada and the U.S., Clearly Canadian and its insiders may have defences available to avoid in Canada the effect of U.S. judgments under Canadian law, making enforcement difficult or impossible. Our management may not have any personal assets available in the U.S. to satisfy judgments of U.S. courts. Therefore, our shareholders in the United States may have to avail themselves of remedies under Canadian corporate and securities laws for perceived oppression, breach of fiduciary duty and like legal complaints. Canadian law may not provide for remedies equivalent to those available under U.S. law. Our results of operations have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate from period to period depending on a number of factors, including the timing and receipt of significant product orders, increased cost in the completion of product orders, increased competition, regulatory and other developments in our markets, changes in the demand for our products, the cancellation of product orders, difficulties in collection of receivables, the timing of new product introductions, changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors, delays in the introduction of products by us, expenses associated with the acquisition of production resources and raw materials from third parties, the mix of sales of our products, seasonality of customer purchases, personnel changes, political and economic uncertainty, the mix of international and North American revenue, tax policies, foreign currency exchange rates and general economic and political conditions. We believe that economic developments and trends have adversely affected and may continue to affect levels of consumer spending in the markets that we serve. We believe that these and other factors have adversely affected demand for our products. While we believe that economic conditions in certain of our markets show signs of improvement, we also believe that economic conditions and general trends are likely to continue to affect demand for premium priced beverage products such as we produce and sell. Such factors may also increase the amount of doubtful accounts or adversely affect the likelihood of collection of such accounts with third parties, such as distributors and retailers, to whom we sells products. Because we are unable to forecast with certainty the receipt of orders for products and our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, upon our expectation of future revenue, if revenue levels fall below expectations, operating results are likely to be adversely affected. As a result, net income may be disproportionately affected because a relatively small amount of our expenses vary with our revenue. 6 Based on all of the foregoing factors, we believe that our quarterly and annual revenue, direct expenses and operating results are likely to vary significantly in the future, that period-to-period comparisons of the results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and that such comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our intellectual property rights are critical to our success, and the loss of such rights could materially and adversely affect our business We regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success and we attempt to protect such property with registered and common law trademarks and copyrights, restrictions on disclosure and other actions to forestall infringement. We rely on a combination of trademark and trade secrecy laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. In the past, we have licensed elements of our distinctive trademarks, trade dress and similar proprietary rights to third parties, and we anticipate that we may license such elements in the future as well. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by such licensees, no assurances can be given that such licensees will not take actions that might materially and adversely affect the value of our proprietary rights or the reputation of our products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, trade dress and similar proprietary rights. Despite our precautions, some or all of the trade secrets and other know-how that we consider proprietary could be independently developed, could otherwise become known by others or could be deemed to be in the public domain. If we lose some or all of our intellectual property rights, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Increases in the cost of packaging and raw materials could reduce profits We spend significant amounts on packaging for our products. We consider packaging to be an important component in the sale of our products. Packaging has been very important to our success and helps to distinguish our products from those of our competitors. We, and our co-packers from whom we buy products, purchase primary packaging supplies, including bottles, caps, preforms, plastic sleeves, labels, trays, jars, lids, tins and bags from outside vendors. In addition, we, and our co-packers, purchase a significant portion of the ingredients needed to produce our products, including sweeteners, flavors, dried fruits, nuts, vegetable products, rice, grains, milk and egg products and carbon dioxide from outside vendors. We rely on our ongoing relationships with key suppliers and co-packers to support our operations. If the cost of our packaging or raw materials increases significantly, the total cost of our products would increase significantly, which could adversely affect the sales of our products, as well as our financial performance. We have made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial position in the preparation of our financial statements In the ordinary course of business, we have made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial position in the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with Canadian GAAP. Actual results could differ significantly from anticipated results should such estimates and/or assumptions prove to be materially incorrect or inaccurate. We believe that the information herein (see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Application of Critical Accounting Policies” and “Note 2” to financial statements) addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. Our directors, officers, promoters and other members of management may serve as directors, officers, promoters and other members of management of other companies, therefore it is possible that a conflict of interest may arise Certain of our directors, officers, and other members of management, including Bobby Genovese, David Reingold and George Reznik, presently serve as directors, officers, promoters and members of management of other companies and therefore it is possible that a conflict may arise between their duties as a director, officer, promoter or 7 member of management of Clearly Canadian and their duties as a director, officer, promoter or member of management of such other companies. Our directors and officers are aware of the existence of laws governing accountability of directors and officers for corporate opportunity and requiring disclosures by directors of conflicts of interest and we will rely upon such laws in respect of any directors’ and officers’ conflicts of interest or in respect of any breaches of duty by any of our directors or officers. All such conflicts will be disclosed in accordance with the provisions of applicable corporate legislation and directors or officers will govern themselves in respect thereof to the best of their ability in accordance with the obligations imposed upon them by law. Our markets are highly competitive We operate in highly competitive geographic and product markets, and most of our markets are dominated by competitors with greater resources. We cannot be certain that we could successfully compete for sales to distributors or stores that purchase from larger, more established companies that have greater financial, managerial, sales and technical resources. In addition, we compete for limited retailer shelf space for our products. Larger competitors, such as mainstream food and beverage companies including but not limited to Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Cadbury, Hain-Celestial, Heinz, Nestle, and Johnvince Foods, also may be able to benefit from economies of scale, pricing advantages or the introduction of new products that compete with our products. Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels. In the future, competitors may introduce other products that compete with our products and these competitive products may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also compete with other manufacturers in the procurement of natural and organic product ingredients, which may be less plentiful in the open market than conventional product ingredients. This competition may increase in the future along with increasing public demand for natural and organic products. This could cause our expenses to increase or could limit the amount of product that we can manufacture and sell. Consumer preferences for our products are difficult to predict and may change A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products or our failure to maintain our current market position could reduce our sales or the prestige of our brands in our markets, which could harm our business. While we continue to diversify our product offerings, we cannot be certain that demand for our products will continue at current levels or increase in the future. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to risk We intend to continue to grow our business in part through the acquisition of new brands, both in Canada and the United States. Our acquisition strategy is based on identifying and acquiring brands with products that complement our existing product mix. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully: identify suitable acquisition candidates; negotiate identified acquisitions on terms acceptable to us; or integrate acquisitions that we complete. We may encounter increased competition for acquisitions in the future, which could result in acquisition prices we do not consider acceptable. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Our future success may be dependent on our ability to integrate brands that we acquire Our future success may be dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate new brands that we acquire, including our ability to realize potentially available marketing opportunities and cost savings, some of which may involve operational changes. We cannot be certain: 8 as to the timing or number of marketing opportunities or amount of cost savings that may be realized as the result of our integration of an acquired brand; that a business combination will enhance our competitive position and business prospects; or that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or other parties as a result of a business combination. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in: integrating an acquired brand’s distribution channels with our own; coordinating sales force activities of an acquired brand or in selling the products of an acquired brand to our customer base; or integrating an acquired brand into our management information systems or integrating an acquired brand’s products into our product mix. Additionally, integrating an acquired brand into our existing operations will require management resources and may divert our management from our day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in integrating the operations of acquired brands, our business could be harmed. We are dependent on the distribution services of independent distributors and independent food/beverage brokers in order to distribute and sell our products to retailers and consumers We rely, in addition to our own sale organization, upon sales efforts made by or through distributors and brokers to sell our products. The loss of, or business disruption at, one or more of these distributors or brokers may harm our business. If we were required to obtain additional or alternative distribution and food brokerage agreements or arrangements in the future, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. For our beverages, we rely, to a significant extent, on the distribution services of distributors in order to distribute and sell our beverage products to retailers and consumers. Over recent years, we have observed an increased consolidation of distribution services within the alternative beverage industry. Traditional soft drink companies, which also own or operate distribution companies that provide distribution services to alternative beverage companies, have acquired or developed alternative beverage products. As a result of these developments, these distribution companies that are associated with traditional soft drink beverage companies are less willing to distribute and sell other companies’ alternative beverage products, especially if such products compete with the products that the traditional soft drink companies have within their portfolio of beverages. In view of these developments, we are attempting to diversify our distribution network to align ourselves with distribution companies that are not affiliated only with traditional soft drink beverage companies. Our recent efforts include a transition from our largest distributor, the Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up Bottling Group, which has been distributing our products in the Mid West, South Central and South West of the United States, to a network of these other types of distributors who distribute a variety of alternative beverages. There is no assurance that the volume of sales from these new distributors will match or exceed the volume of sales which in the past was generated by the Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up Bottling Group, and this shift in distribution strategy may have an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. There is no assurance that the volume of sales to any of our distributors will match or exceed the volume of sales which in the past was generated by these customers and lower sales to these customers may have an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. Loss of one or more of our independent co-packers could harm our business Our revenue is derived from products manufactured by independent co-packers. The loss of one or more co-packers, or our failure to retain co-packers for newly acquired products or brands, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as an alternate source could be secured, which may be on less favorable terms. Our future results of operations may be adversely affected by escalating fuel costs 9 Many aspects of our business have been, and continue to be, directly affected by the continuously rising cost of fuel. Increased fuel costs have translated into increased costs for the products and services we receive from our third party providers including, but not limited to, increased production and distribution costs for our products. As the cost of doing business increases, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers and, therefore, any such increase may adversely affect our earnings. Our inability to use our trademarks could have a material adverse effect on our business We believe that brand awareness is a significant component in a consumer’s decision to purchase one product over another in the highly competitive food, beverage and personal care industry. Although we endeavour to protect our trademarks and trade names, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, or that third parties will not challenge our right to use one or more of our trademarks or trade names. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to the marketing and sale of our products and that the inability to utilize certain of these names could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products must comply with government regulation The USDA has adopted, and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency is soon to adopt regulations with respect to a national organic labelling and certification program. We currently manufacture organic products which are covered by these regulations. Future developments in the regulation of labelling of organic foods could require us to further modify the labelling of our products, which could affect the sales of our products and thus harm our business. In addition, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency has recently adopted regulations with respect to natural health products (NHP) which require that all products sold as natural health products be NHP licensed. Some of our Clearly Canadian® Natural Enhanced Waters are natural health products and we have applied for an NHP license for these products but are able to sell them during the application process. If we do not obtain an NHP license for these products we may not be able to sell them in Canada which could harm our business. We continually monitor and modify packaging to be in compliance with the rules of the various countries where we sell our products. Our ability to meet local packaging regulations impact our ability to sell products in these regions. Furthermore, new government laws and regulations may be introduced in the future that could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recalls or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our business Manufacturers and distributors of products in our industry are sometimes subject to the recall of their products for a variety of reasons, including for product defects, such as ingredient contamination, packaging safety and inadequate labelling disclosure. If any of our products are recalled due to a product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the expense of the recall or the expense of any resulting legal proceeding. Additionally, if one of our significant brands were subject to recall, the image of that brand and our image could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Product liability suits, if brought, could have a material adverse effect on our business If a product liability claim exceeding our insurance coverage were to be successfully asserted against us, it could harm our business. We cannot assure you that such coverage will be sufficient to insure against claims which may be brought against us, or that we will be able to maintain such insurance or obtain additional insurance covering existing or new products. As a marketer of food, beverage and personal care products, we are subject to the risk of claims for product liability. We maintain product liability insurance and generally require that our co-packers maintain product liability insurance naming us as a co-insured. 10 We rely on independent certification for a number of our food products We rely on independent certification, such as certifications of our products as “organic” or “kosher,” to differentiate our products from others. The loss of any independent certifications could adversely affect our market position as a natural and organic food company, which could harm our business. We must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as certified. For example, we can lose our “organic” certification if a manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials, or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. In addition, all raw materials must be certified organic. Similarly, we can lose our “kosher” certification if a manufacturing plant and raw materials do not meet the requirements of the appropriate kosher supervision organization. Our industries are subject to seasonal variations in demand. Sales of both beverage products and snack food products are subject to seasonal variations in demand. For example, consumers in North America typically consume fewer beverage products in the late fall, winter and early spring months and consume a higher amount of snack food around some holidays. As a result, our sales and results of operations vary seasonally and such variations may be significant. For these reasons you should not rely on quarterly operating results as indications of future performance. Our growth is dependent on our ability to introduce new products and improve existing products Our growth depends in large part on our ability to generate and implement improvements to our existing products and to introduce new products to consumers. The innovation and product improvements are affected by the level of funding that can be made available, the technical capability of our team in developing and testing product prototypes, and the success of our management in rolling out the resulting improvements in a timely manner. If we are unsuccessful in implementing product improvements that satisfy the demands of consumers, our business could be harmed. The profitability of our operations is dependent on our ability to manage our inventory Our profit margins depend on our ability to manage our inventory efficiently. A number of factors, such as changes in customers’ inventory levels, access to shelf space and changes in consumer preferences, may lengthen the number of days we carry certain inventories, hence impeding our effort to manage our inventory efficiently. Risks Related to our Capital Stock BG Capital Group beneficially owns a majority of the voting power and effectively controls our company, which could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders As of June 17, 2008, BG Capital Group Ltd. is the holder of 2,673,651 of our common shares and warrants to acquire an additional 4,000,000 common shares at a price of $1.25 per share. In the event BG Capital exercised all of its rights to acquire stock on the exercise of its outstanding warrants, as of June 17, 2008, it would own approximately 24.1% of our common shares. Based on 23,716,878 common shares issued and outstanding as of June 17, 2008, the number of votes accruing by formula to each Variable Multiple Voting Share is approximately 39,783,340, for a total of 62.7% votes. The ownership of the Variable Multiple Voting Shares has the effect of increasing BG Capital’s outstanding voting power further. Accordingly, this single shareholder can influence the outcome of shareholder votes, involving the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of association and the approval of mergers or other similar transactions, such as a sale of substantially all of our assets. Such control by BG Capital could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company. In addition, we have a shareholders’ rights plan and super majority approval requirements, each of which may prevent or delay a change of control. 11 Future financings and exercise of the outstanding options and warrants could result in significant dilution to our shareholders During 2007, we completed several private placements, resulting in the issuance of common and preferred shares and common share warrants. We also completed a Senior Convertible Note financing resulting in the issuance of $9,360,000 in Senior Convertible Notes and 4,517,162 warrants to purchase common shares. The material terms of and additional risks relating to our Senior Convertible Note financing are discussed in further detail throughout this annual report. We may need to seek additional sources of debt or equity financings in the future to fund our operations and working capital requirements. As we issue stock or convertible securities in the future, including for any future financing, those issuances would also dilute our shareholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. If additional shares are issued or if we acquire other businesses through the sale of equity securities, our shareholders will be diluted. In addition, we have reserved, in aggregate, 1,750,000 common shares for issuance upon exercise of options under our 2005 Stock Option Plan, and 10,000,000 common shares for issuance upon exercise of options or other stock-based awards under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. As of June 17, 2008, we have also issued warrants to purchase up to 11,193,495 shares at exercise prices ranging from $1.25 to $3.25 per share. The issuance of shares under either of our stock plans or upon exercise of any of the outstanding stock purchase warrants will also dilute our shareholders. Our shares have experienced significant price volatility and continued volatility may adversely affect the price of our common shares Our common share price has experienced significant price volatility, with trading prices on the OTC Bulletin Board ranging from $2.50 (high) to $1.10 (low) during the year ended December 31, 2005, from $4.41 (high) to $2.05 (low) during the year ended December 31, 2006 ,from $3.18 (high) to $0.40 (low) during the period from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007, and from $1.26 (high) to $0.47 (low) during the period from January 1, 2008 to June 16, 2008. There are many reasons for fluctuations in trading, including announcements of developments related to our business, fluctuations in operating results, failure to meet investor expectations, general conditions in the beverage industry and the worldwide economy, announcements of innovations, new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, acquisitions and divestitures, changes in governmental regulations, developments in licensing arrangements and changes in relationships with trade partners and suppliers. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for small capitalization stocks in particular, has experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Such fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of the common stock and make it difficult for shareholders to resell their shares Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a national securities exchange. Accordingly, an investor in our common stock may have difficulty reselling his or her shares. Because our common stock is considered a “penny stock,” our shareholders’ ability to sell or buy shares in the secondary trading market may be limited Our common stock is subject to certain rules and regulations relating to “penny stock.” A “penny stock” is generally defined as any equity security that has a price less than $5.00 per share and that is not quoted on a national securities exchange. Being a penny stock generally means that any broker who wants to trade in our shares (other than with established clients and certain institutional investors) must comply with certain “sales practice 12 requirements,” including delivery to the prospective purchaser of the penny stock a risk disclosure document describing the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith. In addition, broker-dealers must take certain steps prior to selling a “penny stock,” which steps include: obtaining financial and investment information from the investor; obtaining a written suitability questionnaire and purchase agreement signed by the investor; and providing the investor a written identification of the shares being offered and the quantity of the shares. If these penny stock rules are not followed by the broker-dealer, the investor has no obligation to purchase the shares. The application of these comprehensive rules will make it more difficult for broker-dealers to sell our common stock, and as a practical matter, these requirements may mean that brokers are less likely to make recommendations on our shares to its general clients. As a result, for as long as our common stock is subject to these penny stock rules, our shareholders may have difficulty in selling their shares in the secondary trading market. In addition, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if our common stock were traded on a national securities exchange, like the New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ Stock Market or American Stock Exchange. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. Risks Related to our Senior Convertible Notes and Acquisition Notes (collectively, the “Notes”) If an event of default occurs on the Notes our debt holders may require repayment of the debt which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. On September 26, 2007, we closed on our Senior Convertible Note financings and restructured our obligations to the sellers of My Organic Baby, Inc. and DMR Food Corporation, for which we issued Notes in principal amount totalling $11.8 million. In the event that an event of default occurs under the terms of the Notes, each debt holder may require us to pay the greater of (i) 125% of the principal amount and any additional amounts owing under the Notes or (ii) 125% of the value of the common shares issuable upon conversion of the principal amount and any additional amounts owing under the Notes, as determined by the highest selling price of our common shares on or around the event of default. The cash required to pay such accelerated amounts on the Notes following an event of default would most likely come out of our working capital. As we rely on our working capital for our day to day operations, such a default could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. In addition, upon an event of default, the holders of Notes may exercise any additional other remedies available to them. If we were forced to file for bankruptcy or cease operations, shareholders may not receive any proceeds from disposition of our assets and may lose their entire investment in our stock. Our obligations under the Notes may adversely affect our ability to enter into significant transactions with other parties and take certain actions related to our business. As a result of the issuance of the Notes, we agreed to certain restrictions and conditions with respect to significant transactions with third parties. Unless we obtain the consent of 70% of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes, we may not enter into a significant business transaction, such as a merger, sale of assets, a transaction in which a third party obtains voting control, or a material reorganization. Moreover, we may only enter into a significant transaction with a publicly traded corporation that is listed on a U.S. securities exchange and that agrees to assume all Notes. In connection with a significant transaction, each debt holder can require us to redeem a Note greater of (i) 130% of the outstanding principal balance and any additional amounts owing under the notes or (ii) 125% of an amount determined by multiplying the outstanding principal balance and any additional amounts owing under the Notes by a ratio of the consideration price paid per common share in the transaction to the conversion price of the Notes. 13 Additionally, for so long as any Notes are outstanding, we may not be able take certain actions related to the operation of our business, including the following: create, incur, assume or guarantee any debt (except as expressly permitted under the Notes); mortgage or encumber our assets (except as expressly permitted under the Notes); or redeem or pay any dividends on our common shares; These provisions could have the practical effect of increasing the costs of any potential significant transaction, and restrict our ability to enter into any such transaction and our ability to operate aspects of our business. The Notes provide full ratchet anti-dilution provisions that could further dilute the ownership of our shareholders. The initial conversion price of the Notes is $2.33 per share. The number of shares to be issued upon conversion of the Notes will depend on the actual dollar amount of principal and interest being converted. We also issued 4,517,162 warrants to purchase our common shares. Of the warrants, the warrants designated as Series E Warrants and Lane Warrants are exercisable at an initial exercise price of $2.33 per common share and the warrants designated as Series F Warrants are exercisable at an initial exercise price of $2.56 per common share. The conversion of the Notes and the exercise of the Series E and Series F Warrants and Lane Warrants will dilute our shareholders. Each Note and Warrant carries a full ratchet anti-dilution provision. If we issue any convertible or equity securities at any time in the future (subject to certain exceptions including stock option grants and issuances in connection with certain acquisition transactions) at a price less than the applicable conversion price or exercise price, then the conversion price and exercise price will be automatically adjusted down to that lesser price. Any such adjustment will further dilute our shareholders. We are currently involved in negotiations with the holders of the Notes as to whether the full-ratchet anti-dilution provision has been triggered and whether we are obligated to adjust the conversion price of the Notes and the exercise price of the Series E Warrants, Series F Warrants and Lane Warrants. If the conversion price is adjusted, this will result in a significant additional number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes and upon exercise of the Warrants, which will further dilute our shareholders. ITEM 