Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That May Affect Our Business and Future Results Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We face competition that may reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. There is substantial competition in the telecommunications industry. The traditional dividing lines between long-distance, local access, wireless, Internet and video services are increasingly becoming blurred. Through mergers and various service integration strategies, major providers are striving to provide integrated communications services offerings within and across geographic markets. We face increasing video services competition from DBS providers. We expect competition to increase as a result of the rapid development of new technologies, services and products. We cannot predict which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on marketing and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, economic conditions and pricing strategies by competitors. To the extent we do not keep pace with technological advances or fail to timely respond to changes in competitive factors in our industry and in our markets, we could lose market shar e or experience a decline in our revenue and net income. Competitive conditions create a risk of market share loss and the risk that customers shift to less profitable lower margin services. Competitive pressures also create challenges for our ability to grow new businesses or introduce new services successfully and execute our business plan. Each of our business segments also faces the risk of potential price cuts by our competitors that could materially adversely affect our market share and gross margins. For more information about competition by segment, see the sections titled “Competition” included in “Item 1 — Business — Narrative Description of our Business — Description of our Business by Reportable Segment.” Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation. Applicable legislation and regulations and changes to them could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Wireless Services. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless communications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to: · How radio spectrum is used by licensees; · The nature of the services that licensees may offer and how such services may be offered; and · Resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, preempts state and local regulation of market entry by, and the rates charged by, commercial mobile radio service providers, except that states may exercise authority over such things as certain billing practices and consumer-related issues. These regulations could increase the costs of our wireless operations. The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. FCC rules require all wireless licensees to meet certain build-out requirements and substantially comply with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in order to retain their licenses. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given license area could result in revocation of the license for that license area. There is no guar antee that our licenses will be renewed. The FCC has initiated a number of proceedings to evaluate its rules and policies regarding spectrum licensing and usage. Changes proposed by the FCC could adversely impact our utilization of our licensed spectrum and our operation costs. 27 Commercial mobile radio service providers must implement enhanced 911 ("E911") capabilities in accordance with FCC rules. Failure to deploy E911 service consistent with FCC requirements could subject us to significant fines. The FCC, together with the Federal Aviation Administration, also regulates tower marking and lighting. In addition, tower construction is affected by federal, state and local statutes addressing zoning, environmental protection and historic preservation. The FCC adopted significant changes to its rules governing historic preservation review of projects, which makes it more difficult and expensive to deploy antenna facilities. The FCC is also considering changes to its rules regarding environmental protection as related to tower construction, which, if adopted, could make it more difficult to deploy facilities. Video Services. The cable television industry is subject to extensive regulation at various levels, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. The law permits certified local franchising authorities to order refunds of rates paid in the previous 12-month period determined to be in excess of the reasonable rates. It is possible that rate reductions or refunds of previously collected fees may be required of us in the future. Currently, pursuant to Alaska law, the basic cable rates in Juneau are the only rates in Alaska subject to regulation by the local franchising authority, and the rates in Juneau were reviewed and approved by the RCA in July 2010. Proposals may be made before Congress and the FCC to mandate cable operators provide “open access” over their cable systems to Internet service providers. As of the date of this report, the FCC has declined to impose such requirements. If the FCC or other authorities mandate additional access to our cable systems, we cannot predict the effect that this would have on our Internet service offerings. Other existing federal regulations, currently the subject of judicial, legislative, and administrative review, could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which cable television systems operate. Neither the outcome of these proceedings nor their impact upon the cable television industry in general, or on our activities and prospects in the cable television business in particular, can be predicted at this time. There can be no assurance that future regulatory actions taken by Congress, the FCC or other federal, state or local government authorities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Internet Services. Changes in the regulatory environment relating to the Internet access market, including changes in legislation, FCC regulation, judicial action or local regulation that affect communications costs or increase competition from the ILEC or other communications services providers, could adversely affect the prices at which we sell Internet services. Local Access Services. Our success in the local telephone market depends on our continued ability to obtain interconnection, access and related services from local exchange carriers on terms that are reasonable and that are based on the cost of providing these services. Our local telephone services business faces the risk of the impact of the implementation of current regulations and legislation, unfavorable changes in regulation or legislation or the introduction of new regulations. Our ability to enter into the local telephone market depends on our negotiation or arbitration with local exchange carriers to allow interconnection to the carrier’s existing local telephone network, to establish dialing parity, to obtain access to rights-of-way, to r esell services offered by the local exchange carrier, and in some cases, to allow the purchase, at cost-based rates, of access to UNEs. In some Alaska markets, it also depends on our ability to gain interconnection at economic costs. Future arbitration proceedings with respect to new or existing markets could result in a change in our cost of serving these markets via the facilities of the ILEC or via wholesale offerings. For more information about Regulations affecting our operations, see “Competition” contained in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation.” Loss of our ETC status would disqualify us for USF support. The USF pays support to ETCs to support the provision of facilities-based wireline and wireless telephone service in high-cost areas. If we were to lose our ETC status in any of the study areas where we are currently an authorized ETC, we would be ineligible to receive USF support for providing service in that area. Loss of our ETC status could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 28 Revenues and accounts receivable from USF support may be reduced or lost. We receive support from each of the various USF programs: high-cost, low income, rural health care, and schools and libraries. This support was 18%, 14%, and 10% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The programs are subject to change by regulatory actions taken by the FCC or legislative actions. The FCC has proposed phasing out support for voice services and targeting support to broadband services, as well as phasing out support for competitive ETCs. In addition, members of Congress have indicated that they may seek enactment of legislation addressing universal service reform, including legislation to limit growth of explicit universal service support funds. Changes to any of the USF programs that we participate in could result in a material decrease in revenue and accounts receivable, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. See “Description of Our Business by Reportable Segment — Regulation — Wireline Voice Services and Products — Universal Service” for more information. We may not be able to satisfy the requirements of the loan/grant we obtained to build TERRA-SW and/or we may have to spend considerably more than expected to complete the project. The TERRA-SW project requires us to construct network facilities in rural areas of Alaska where extensive network facilities have never been built. Our ability to complete the TERRA-SW project will require us to obtain permits from various government agencies as well as construct facilities in rural locations. We will be unable to meet the requirements of the grant if we are unable to obtain necessary construction permits and if we are unable to construct the necessary facilities in the rural locations. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant unplanned costs if we encounter unplanned construction challenges. These additional unplanned costs may require us to modify our other network expansion plans so that we may meet the requirements of the grant. Our inabili ty to meet the requirements of the grant and/or significant cost overruns in the construction of TERRA-SW could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Failure to complete development, testing and deployment of new technology that supports new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. In addition, the technology we use may place us at a competitive disadvantage. We develop, test and deploy various new technologies and support systems intended to enhance our competitiveness by both supporting new services and features and reducing the costs associated with providing those services or features. Successful development and implementation of technology upgrades depend, in part, on the willingness of third parties to develop new applications in a timely manner. We may not successfully complete the development and rollout of new technology and related features or services in a timely manner, and they may not be widely accepted by our customers or may not be profitable, in which case we could not recover our investment in the technology. Deployment of technology supporting new service offerings may also adversely affect the performance or reliability of our net works with respect to both the new and existing services. Any resulting customer dissatisfaction could affect our ability to retain customers and may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the current economic downturn in the United States, could negatively affect our business. While it is often difficult for us to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we could be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and the number of days outstanding for our accounts receivable could increase. The government has taken various measures in an attempt to help improve the economy, however, we are unable to predict the success or outcome of such programs. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity, as well as our ability to service debt, pay other obligations and enhance shareholder returns. 29 Our business is geographically concentrated in Alaska. Any deterioration in the economic conditions in Alaska could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We offer voice, data and wireless communication and video services to customers primarily in Alaska. Because of this geographic concentration, our growth and operations depend upon economic conditions in Alaska. The economy of Alaska is dependent upon natural resource industries, in particular oil production, as well as tourism, and government spending, including substantial amounts for the United States military. Any deterioration in these markets could have an adverse impact on the demand for communication and cable television services and on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the customer base in Alaska is limited. Alaska has a population of approximately 710,000 people, 54% of whom are located in the Anchorage and Matanuska-Susitna Borough region. We have already achieved significant market pene tration with respect to our service offerings in Anchorage and in other locations in Alaska. We may not be able to continue to increase our market share of the existing markets for our services, and no assurance can be given that the Alaskan economy will continue to grow and increase the size of the markets we serve or increase the demand for the services we offer. As a result, the best opportunities for expanding our business may arise in other geographic areas such as the lower 49 states. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive opportunities to grow our businesses outside of Alaska or that we will have the necessary expertise to take advantage of such opportunities. The markets in Alaska for voice, data and wireless communications and video services are unique and distinct within the United States due to Alaska’s large geographical size, its sparse population located in a limited number of cluste rs, and its distance from the rest of the United States. The expertise we have developed in operating our businesses in Alaska may not provide us with the necessary expertise to successfully enter other geographic markets. Prolonged service interruptions could affect our business. We rely heavily on our network equipment, communications providers, data and software to support all of our functions. We rely on our networks and the networks of others for substantially all of our revenues. We are able to deliver services only to the extent that we can protect our network systems against damage from power or communication failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other disruptions. While we endeavor to provide for failures in the network by providing back-up systems and procedures, we cannot guarantee that these back-up systems and procedures will operate satisfactorily in an emergency. Should we experience a prolonged failure, it could seriously jeopardize our ability to continue operations. In particular, should a significant service interruption occur, our ongoing customers may choose a different provider, and our reputation may be damaged, reducing our attractiveness to new customers. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers’ data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability and suffer from adverse publicity. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches. If failures occur in our undersea fiber optic cable systems, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited and we could incur significant costs, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Our communications facilities include undersea fiber optic cable systems that carry a large portion of our traffic to and from the contiguous lower 48 states one of which provides an alternative geographically diverse backup communication facility to the other. If a failure of both sides of the ring of our undersea fiber optic facilities occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Damage to an undersea fiber optic cable system can result in significant unplanned expense which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. If a failure occurs in our satellite communications systems, our ability to immediately restore the entirety of our service may be limited. Our communications facilities include satellite transponders that we use to serve many rural and remote Alaska locations. Each of our C-band and Ku-band satellite transponders is backed up on the same 30 spacecraft with multiple backup transponders. If a failure of our satellite transponders occurs and we are not able to secure alternative facilities, some of the communications services we offer to our customers could be interrupted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply communications equipment. If we do not obtain the necessary communications equipment, we will not be able to meet the needs of our customers. We depend on a limited number of third-party vendors to supply cable, Internet, DLPS, wireless and other telephony-related equipment. If our providers of this equipment are unable to timely supply the equipment necessary to meet our needs or provide them at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to satisfy demand for our services and competitors may fulfill this demand. Due to the unique characteristics of the Alaska communications markets (i.e., remote locations, rural, satellite-served, low density populations, and our leading edge services and products), in many situations we deploy and utilize specialized, advanced technology and equipment that may not have a large market or demand. Our vendors may not succeed in developing sufficient market penetration to sustain continuing production and may fail. Vendor bankruptcy, or ac quisition without continuing product support by the acquiring company, may require us to replace technology before its otherwise useful end of life due to lack of on-going vendor support and product development. We do not have insurance to cover certain risks to which we are subject, which could lead to the incurrence of uninsured liabilities that adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. As is typical in the communications industry, we are self-insured for damage or loss to certain of our transmission facilities, including our buried, undersea and above-ground transmission lines. If we become subject to substantial uninsured liabilities due to damage or loss to such facilities, our financial position, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected. Our significant debt could adversely affect our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our Senior Notes. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt. On December 31, 2010, we had total debt of $786.7 million. Our debt balance is expected to increase by $44.2 million with the construction of TERRA-SW between 2011 and 2012. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: · Use of a large portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our Senior Notes and our other debt, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities; · Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · Restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; · Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes and our other debt; · Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · Limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or pay cash dividends. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt, complete our planned network expansion and to meet other obligations. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our future capital needs it may be necessary for us to curtail, delay or abandon our business growth plans. If we incur significant additional indebtedness to fund our plans, it could cause a decline in our credit rating and could increase our borrowing costs or limit our ability to raise additional capital. We will continue to require a significant amount of cash to satisfy our debt service requirements and to meet other obligations. We expect to incur $44.2 million in additional debt for the construction of TERRA-SW in 2011-2012 and, to meet our capital needs, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash and to arrange additional financing in the future. These abilities are subject to, among other factors, our credit rating, our financial performance, general economic conditions, 31 prevailing market conditions, the state of competition in our market, the outcome of certain legislative and regulatory issues and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The terms of our debt impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business and our ability to make payments on the Senior Notes. The indentures governing our Senior Notes and/or the credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facility and other loans contain various covenants that could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. All of these covenants may restrict our ability to expand or to pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and if such events occur, we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indentures governing our Senior Notes and/or the Senior Credit Facility. If there were an event of default under the indentures for the Senior Notes and/or the Senior Credit Facility, holders of such defaulted debt could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay the debt under the Senior Credit Facility when it becomes due, the lenders under the Senior Credit Facilit y could proceed against certain of our assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries that we have pledged to them as security. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments in the event of a default thereunder. Concerns about health risks associated with wireless equipment may reduce the demand for our wireless services. Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions from these devices. Purported class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against numerous other wireless carriers seeking not only damages but also remedies that could increase the cost of doing business. We cannot be sure of the outcome of those cases or that the industry will not be adversely affected by litigation of this nature or public perception about health risks. The actual or perceived risk of mobile communications devices could adversely affect us through a reduction in subscribers. Further research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot be sure that additional studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concer ns. Additionally, new government regulations on the use of a wireless device while driving may affect us through a reduction in subscribers. Studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. Many state and local legislative bodies have passed or proposed legislation to restrict the use of wireless telephones while driving vehicles. Concerns over safety and the effect of future legislation, if adopted and enforced in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. Litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Any of these resul ts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. A significant percentage of our voting securities are owned by a small number of shareholders and these shareholders can control shareholder decisions on very important matters. As of December 31, 2010, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates owned 9% of our combined outstanding Class A and class B common stock, representing 20% of the combined voting power of that stock. These shareholders can significantly influence, if not control, our management policy and all fundamental corporate actions, including mergers, substantial acquisitions and dispositions, and election of directors to the Board. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 32 