ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our prospects are subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the following. Derivative Litigation and Investigation of Past Stock Option Practice As disclosed elsewhere in this report, the Company, through a Special Litigation Committee (SLC) of the Board of Directors conducted an investigation of certain stock option grant practices and claims alleged in the shareholder derivative actions discussed in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The Company is restating certain prior period financial statements based on the results of this investigation. See the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I of this 10-K and Note 2, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” to the consolidated financial statements. The internal investigation, litigation and related matters have required us to incur substantial legal, accounting, tax and other professional fees, have diverted management’s attention from our business, could continue to do so and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our past stock option practice and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages, fines or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the appropriate adjustments to and restatements of the applicable financial statements, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of such changes. Accordingly there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Potential Intellectual Property Infringement Claims from Third Parties The industry in which EDC competes has many participants who own, or who claim to own, intellectual property for certain of the manufacturing processes we employ, the products we produce or the content produced by our customers. We pay licensing fees to certain third parties who claim to own the rights to intellectual property that we employ in our manufacturing processes or products. It is not possible to determine with certainty whether these or 9 Table of Contents any other existing third party patents or the issuance of any new third party patents may require us to alter, or obtain licenses relating to our processes or products. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such licenses on favorable terms and obtaining and paying royalties on new licenses might materially increase our costs. New multimedia formats will likely require us to obtain additional licenses. Any intellectual property infringement claims asserted by a third party against us could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays, or require us to pay damages to or enter into licensing agreements with third party claimants. An adverse decision in an infringement claim asserted against us could result in our being prohibited from using such technology, as licensing arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The messaging business, substantially all of the assets of which were sold on December 31, 2006, is subject to certain infringement claims. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements and Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Internal Controls and Procedures As disclosed in the Company’s 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the first three quarters of 2006, management’s assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting identified a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as of December 31, 2005) and ineffective disclosure controls and procedures (as of December 31, 2005 and as of the end of the first three quarters of 2006) related to revenue recognition in the Messaging business. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company implemented certain corrective actions to address the material weakness identified above. This resulted in improvements in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, including the successful remediation of the material weakness. Additionally, on December 31, 2006, the Company sold substantially all of the assets comprising the Messaging business. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Therefore, even effective internal controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. Any failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in a timely and accurate manner. If we discover a material weakness in the future, we may not be able to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. As a result, our business and operating results could be harmed. Litigation We are party to certain legal proceedings as described in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements and Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” In addition to such legal proceedings, we are from time to time, involved in various disputes and legal actions related to our business operations. While no assurance can be given regarding the outcome of such matters, based on information currently available, we believe that the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of future operations. However, because of the nature and inherent uncertainties of litigation, should the outcome of such actions be unfavorable, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Potential Acquisitions and Strategic Investments We intend to continue making significant investments and to examine opportunities for growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. The impact of these decisions on future financial results cannot be predicted with certainty, and our commitment to growth may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our markets, technology changes and shifts in competitive conditions. We have made, and in the future, may make, strategic investments in other companies. These investments have been made in, and future investments could likely be made in, immature businesses with unproven track records and technologies. Such investments have a high degree of risk, with the possibility that we may lose our entire investment. We may not be able to identify suitable investment candidates and may not be able to make investments on acceptable terms. In addition, we may not gain strategic benefits from those investments. 10 Table of Contents Senior Secured Credit Facility EDC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility contains usual and customary restrictive covenants that, among other things, permit EDC to use the revolver only as a source of liquidity for EDC and its subsidiaries and place limitations on (i) EDC’s ability to incur additional indebtedness; (ii) our ability to pay dividends or make acquisitions outside its current industries; (iii) EDC’s ability to make any payments to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances (other than tax distributions) and (iv) asset dispositions by EDC. It also contains financial covenants relating to maximum consolidated EDC and subsidiaries leverage, minimum interest coverage and maximum senior secured leverage as defined therein. EDC’s ability to comply with these financial covenants is dependent on its future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in the Senior Secured Credit Facility may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would allow the lenders to accelerate the payment of the loans and/or terminate the commitments to lend or forclose on collateral in addition to other legal remedies. Environmental Laws and Regulations Our manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to environmental laws and requirements that may impose material costs or liabilities on us. Our facilities are subject to a range of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment. These include laws and regulations that govern discharges into the air, water and landfills and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations and enforcement policies may require us to incur capital and other costs, which may materially adversely affect future financial conditions. Such costs, or related third-party personal injury or property damage claims, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Ability to Attract and Retain Key Personnel Our continued growth and success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of senior management and other key employees, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuously recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. The loss of one or more key or other employees or our inability to attract additional qualified employees or retain other employees could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Volatility of Stock Price The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors such as announcements of technological developments or new products, developments in relationships with our customers, strategic alliances and partnerships, potential acquisitions and strategic investments, technological advances by existing and new competitors, general market conditions in our industries and changes in government regulations. Competition Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than us and we may be unable to successfully compete with these competitors. In addition, competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on our profits margins in the future. Variability of Quarterly Results and Dependence on Key Customers Our manufacturing and distribution agreements with Universal accounted for approximately 87% and 91% of our 2006 and 2005 revenues, respectively. If market or other factors cause Universal to cancel, reduce or postpone current or expected purchase commitments for our products, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have a business development and sales and marketing team focused on providing a high level of service to Universal as well as attracting new third party customers in the music, video and games markets. Our efforts to expand business with parties other than Universal may not succeed, and as a result, we may not be able to significantly reduce our dependence on Universal. Under our agreements with Universal, we are required to deliver substantial volumes of products meeting stringent requirements. Our failure to successfully manage the production or supply of our products, including the failure to 11 Table of Contents meet scheduled production and delivery deadlines, or the failure of our products to meet required quality standards, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our production levels, revenue and cash flows are largely affected by our customers’ product release schedule. The release schedule is dependent on a variety of factors such as consumer demand and the availability of marketable content. Our results of operations and cash flows in any period can be materially affected by the timing of product releases by our customers, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. In addition, the entertainment business is seasonal and, as such, we typically manufacture and distribute approximately 55% to 60% of our annual demand by volume in the second half of the calendar year. Typically the lowest demand is experienced in the first calendar quarter with the highest demand occurring in the last calendar quarter. This seasonality cycles year over year and is also influenced by Universal’s new product release schedule. International Business Risks International sales are subject to the customary risks associated with international transactions, including political risks, local laws and taxes, the potential imposition of trade or currency exchange restrictions, tariff increases, transportation delays, difficulties or delays in collecting accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, exchange rate fluctuations. Accordingly, we may seek to mitigate our currency exchange fluctuation risk by entering into currency hedging transactions. We also mitigate certain risks associated with international transactions through the use of letters of credit. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will successfully limit the risks associated with these international transactions. Sensitivity to Economic Trends and Consumer Preferences Our financial performance depends on consumer demand for our customers’ products. Substantially all of the purchases of the pre-recorded media products sold by our customers are discretionary. Accordingly, weak economic conditions or outlook or varying consumer confidence could significantly reduce consumption in any of our customers’ major markets thereby causing material declines in our sales and net earnings. In addition, because of the discretionary nature of their products, our customers must continually compete for the public’s leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including legal and illegal downloading of content, box office movies, sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. As a result of this competition, demand for our customers’ products could be reduced and our sales volumes and gross profit margins could be adversely affected. Increased Costs or Shortages of Raw Materials or Energy We purchase significant quantities of plastics (e.g., polystyrene and polycarbonate), the key raw materials used in the production of DVDs, CDs, jewel cases and trays. The availability and price of these materials may be influenced by a number of different factors, many of which are beyond our control, including weather, transportation, increased demand, production delays and the price of oil. The costs of these raw materials are passed through to Universal. The processes at our manufacturing and distribution facilities are energy-intensive. Therefore, increases in energy costs would adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. Advances in Technology, Efforts to Add Services and Changes in Customer Demands Changes in the technology employed by the pre-recorded media industry and the emergence of the future generations of multimedia products, such as Blu-ray discs or HD-DVD, may require us to extensively upgrade or alter our manufacturing processes and production facilities in order to offer the most up-to-date product variations. As the demands and requirements of our customers shift, we will need to modify the products and services offered to retain these customers. The costs associated with adapting our operations to these requirements will likely be significant. The initiatives we are pursuing to increase revenue by providing a wide range of manufacturing, distribution and value added services to entertainment content owners and their customers will also require us to incur costs, which may be significant. However, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will succeed in significantly increasing our revenues. If we are unable to obtain the resources necessary to fund product expansion and new technology development or to increase revenues by adding to the types of manufacturing, distribution and value added services we provide to our customers, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies and our market share, gross profit margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. Development of Digital Distribution Alternatives; Including Copying and Distribution of Music and Video Files Our business is dependent on the continued viability and growth of physical distribution of music and video through authorized pre-recorded media. Alternative distribution channels and methods, both authorized and unauthorized, for delivering music may erode our volume of sales and the pricing of our products and services. The growth of 12 Table of Contents these alternatives is driven by advances in technology that allow for the transfer and downloading of music and video files from the Internet. The proliferation of this copying, use and distribution of such files is supported by the increasing availability and decreasing price of new technologies, such as personal video recorders, CD and DVD burners, portable MP3 music and video players, widespread access to the Internet, and the increasing number of peer-to-peer digital distribution services that facilitate file transfers and downloading. We expect that file sharing and downloading, both legally and illegally, will continue to exert downward pressure on the demand for CDs. As current technologies and delivery systems improve, the digital transfer and downloading of video files will likely become more widespread. As the speed and quality with which video files can be transferred and downloaded improves, file sharing and downloading may in the future exert significant downward pressure on the demand for DVDs. In addition, our business faces pressure from the emerging distribution alternatives, like video on demand (“VOD”) and personal digital video recorders. As substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of CDs and DVDs, increased file sharing, downloading and piracy or the growth of other alternative distribution channels and methods, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of Suppliers EDC’s principle raw materials are polystyrene used in the manufacture of jewel boxes and trays (in Germany only) and polycarbonate used in the manufacture of CDs and DVDs. EDC has a limited number of suppliers who are able to provide raw materials. In Germany, we purchase polystyrene (accounting for approximately 6% of total cost of sales), polycarbonate (accounting for approximately 8% of total cost of sales) and any jewel boxes and trays, not internally manufactured, (accounting for approximately 7% of total cost of sales) from several suppliers. In the UK, we purchase polycarbonate (accounting for approximately 16% of total cost of sales) and jewel boxes and trays (accounting for approximately 33% of total cost of sales), which are not manufactured by EDC, from several suppliers. In the U.S., we purchase polycarbonate (accounting for approximately 10% of total cost of sales) and jewel boxes and trays (accounting for approximately 22% of total cost of sales), which are not manufactured by EDC, from several suppliers. These inputs are crucial to the production of CDs and DVDs and while there are alternative suppliers of these products, it would be disruptive to EDC’s production if any of our suppliers were unable to deliver their product to EDC which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 13 Table of Contents 