Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s prospects are subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the following. Potential Intellectual-Property Infringement Claims from Third Parties Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights continues in the technology industry. If the Company was to discover that its products violated a third party’s proprietary rights and was unable to obtain licenses on terms acceptable to the Company, the Company might not be able to continue offering those products without substantial reengineering. Reengineering efforts might result in substantial costs and product delays, and might not be successful. The industry in which EDC competes has many participants who own, or who claim to own, intellectual property for certain of the manufacturing processes EDC employs, the products EDC produces or the content produced by EDC’s customers. EDC pays licensing fees to certain third parties that claim to own the rights to intellectual property that EDC employs in its manufacturing processes or products. It is not possible to determine with certainty whether these or any other existing third party patents or the issuance of any new third party patents may require EDC to alter, or obtain licenses relating to its processes or products. There is no assurance that EDC would be able to obtain any such licenses on favorable terms and obtaining and paying royalties on new licenses might materially increase EDC’s costs. New multimedia formats will likely require EDC to obtain additional licenses. Any intellectual property infringement claims asserted by a third party against the Company could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays, or require the Company to pay damages to or enter into licensing agreements with third party claimants. An adverse decision in an infringement claim asserted against the Company could result in the Company being prohibited from using such technology, as licensing arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The Company’s inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe our technology does not infringe any third party rights, we are currently subject to certain infringement claims. We expect that our products may continue to be subject to third-party 10 Table of Contents infringement claims. See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Internal Control Deficiencies In connection with the preparation of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, we concluded that the Company’s internal controls were ineffective as of December 31, 2005 as a result of an identified material weakness in internal controls over revenue recognition for the Messaging business. The internal control weakness related primarily to insufficient resources with the knowledge, experience and training in the application of GAAP, as it applied to revenue recognition for multi-element contracts, and was attributed primarily to staff turnover and changes in responsibilities. See Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. We have initiated remediation measures to address the identified material weakness as described in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures and will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis, taking additional remedial action as appropriate. If we are unable to effectively remediate material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and to assert that disclosure controls and procedures including internal control over financial reporting are effective in any future period, the Company could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s stock price and potentially subject it to litigation. Litigation The Company is party to certain legal proceedings as described in Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In addition to such legal proceedings, the Company is from time to time, involved in various disputes and legal actions related to its business operations. While no assurance can be given regarding the outcome of such matters, based on information currently available, we believe that the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of future operations of the Company. However, because of the nature and inherent uncertainties of litigation, should the outcome of such actions be unfavorable, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Potential Acquisitions and Strategic Investments We intend to continue making significant investments and to examine opportunities for growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. The impact of these decisions on future financial results cannot be predicted with certainty, and our commitment to growth may increase the Company’s vulnerability to downturns in its markets, technology changes and shifts in competitive conditions. The Company has made, and in the future, may make, strategic investments in other companies. These investments have been made in, and future investments could likely be made in, immature businesses with unproven track records and technologies. Such investments have a high degree of risk, with the possibility that the Company may lose its entire investment. We may not be able to identify suitable investment candidates and may not be able to make investments on acceptable terms. In addition, the Company may not gain strategic benefits from those investments. Environmental Laws and Regulations The Company’s manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to environmental laws and requirements that may impose material liabilities. The Company’s facilities are subject to a range of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment. These include laws and regulations that govern discharges into the air, water and landfills and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations and enforcement policies may require the Company to incur capital and other costs, which may materially adversely affect future financial conditions. Such costs, or related third-party personal injury or property 11 Table of Contents damage claims, could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Ability to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The Company’s continued growth and success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of senior management and other key employees, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in continuously recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. The loss of one or more key or other employees or EDC’s and/or Messaging’s inability to attract additional qualified employees or retain other employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Volatility of Stock Price The market price of the Company’s common stock is volatile. The market price of its common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors such as announcements of technological developments or new products by the Company, developments in relationships with its customers, strategic alliances and partnerships, potential acquisitions and strategic investments, technological advances by existing and new competitors, general market conditions in the Company’s industries and changes in government regulations. In addition, in recent years, conditions in the stock market in general and shares of technology companies in particular have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these specific companies. Competition Competition in the Company’s industries is intense. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than the Company and the Company may be unable to successfully compete with these competitors. In addition, competitive pricing pressures exist in the Company’s industries, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s profits margins in the future. Variability of Quarterly Results and Dependence on Key Customers EDC: EDC’s manufacturing and distribution agreements with Universal accounted for approximately 91% of its 2005 revenues. If market or other factors cause Universal to cancel, reduce or postpone current or expected purchase commitments for EDC’s products, EDC’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have created a business development and sales and marketing team focused on providing high level of service to Universal as well as attracting new third party customers in the music, video and games markets. EDC’s efforts to expand business with parties other than Universal may not succeed, and as a result, EDC may not be able to significantly reduce its dependence on Universal. Under EDC’s agreements with Universal, EDC is required to deliver substantial volumes of products meeting stringent requirements. EDC’s failure to successfully manage the production or supply of its products, including the failure to meet scheduled production and delivery deadlines, or the failure of EDC’s products to meet required quality standards, could materially adversely affect EDC’s business, operating results and financial condition. EDC’s production levels and, in turn, revenue and cash flows are largely affected by the schedule according to which its major customers release their products, which, in turn, is dependent on a variety of factors such as consumer demand and the availability of marketable content. EDC’s results of operations and cash flows in any period can be materially affected by the timing of product releases by its customers, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. In addition, the entertainment business is seasonal 12 Table of Contents and, as such, EDC typically manufactures and distributes approximately 55% to 60% of its annual demand by volume in the second half of the calendar year. Typically the lowest demand is experienced in the first calendar quarter with highest demand occurring in the last calendar quarter. This seasonality cycles year over year and is also influenced by Universal’s product new release schedule. Messaging: Messaging’s financial results in any single quarter are highly dependent upon the timing and size of customer orders and the shipment of products for large orders. Large orders from customers can account for a significant portion of products shipped in any quarter. During 2005, Nextel, Alltel, US Cellular and MTN individually accounted for approximately 16%, 16%, 15% and 13%, respectively, of Messaging’s total revenues. During 2004, Nortel (an OEM partner, as described below), Alltel, US Cellular and Nextel individually accounted for approximately 16%, 14%, 11% and 10% respectively, of Messaging’s total revenues. Nortel sells Messaging’s products to several end user customers including T-Mobile, whose purchases of Messaging’s products from Nortel represented approximately 10% of Messaging’s total revenues in 2004. There can be no assurance that these significant customers will continue to purchase systems and services from the Company at current levels in the future, and the loss of one or more of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, the customers with whom Messaging does the largest amount of business are expected to vary from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of the timing for development and expansion of customers’ communications networks and systems, the continued expansion into international markets and changes in the proportion of revenues generated by Messaging’s newly developed products and services. Furthermore, if a customer delays or accelerates its delivery requirements or a product’s completion is delayed or accelerated, revenues expected in a given quarter may be deferred or accelerated into subsequent or earlier quarters. Messaging has also historically experienced reduced revenues in its fourth quarter resulting from reduced system expansions as many communication service providers halt system upgrades during their busiest retail season. Therefore, annual financial results are more indicative of the Messaging division’s performance than quarterly results, and results of operations in any quarterly period may not be indicative of results likely to be realized in the subsequent quarterly periods. International Business Risks International sales are subject to the customary risks associated with international transactions, including political risks, local laws and taxes, the potential imposition of trade or currency exchange restrictions, tariff increases, transportation delays, difficulties or delays in collecting accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, exchange rate fluctuations. Although a substantial portion of Messaging’s 2005 international sales were negotiated in U.S. dollars, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain such a high percentage of U.S. dollar-denominated international sales for Messaging. Accordingly, the Company may seek to mitigate its currency exchange fluctuation risk by entering into currency hedging transactions. We also mitigate certain risks associated with international transactions through the use of letters of credit. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will successfully limit the risks associated with these international transactions. Risk Factors Related to EDC Sensitivity to Economic Trends and Consumer Preferences EDC’s financial performance depends on consumer demand for its customers’ products. Substantially all of the purchases of the pre-recorded media products sold by EDC’s customers are discretionary. Accordingly, weak economic conditions or outlook or varying consumer confidence could significantly reduce consumption in any of EDC’s customers’ major markets thereby causing material declines in EDC’s sales and net earnings. In addition, because of the discretionary nature of their products, EDC’s customers must continually compete 13 Table of Contents for the public’s leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including legal and illegal down loading of content, box office movies, sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. As a result of this competition, demand for EDC’s customers’ products could be reduced and EDC’s sales volumes and gross profit margins could be adversely affected. Increased Costs or Shortages of Raw Materials or Energy EDC purchases significant quantities of plastics, the key raw materials used in the production of DVDs, CDs, jewel cases and trays. The availability and price of these materials may be influenced by a number of different factors, many of which are beyond EDC’s control, including weather, transportation, increased demand, production delays and the price of oil. The costs of these raw materials are passed through to Universal. The processes at EDC’s manufacturing and distribution facilities are energy-intensive. Therefore, increases in energy costs would adversely affect EDC’s gross margins and results of operations. Advances in Technology, Efforts to Add Services and Changes in Customer Demands Changes in the technology employed by the pre-recorded media industry and the emergence of the future generations of multimedia products, such as Blu-ray discs or HD-DVD, may require EDC to extensively upgrade or alter its manufacturing processes and production facilities in order to offer the most up-to-date product variations. As the demands and requirements of EDC’s customers shift, we will need to modify the products and services offered to retain these customers. The costs associated with adapting EDC’s operations to these requirements will likely be significant. The initiatives we are pursuing to increase revenue by providing a wide range of manufacturing, distribution and value added services to entertainment content owners and their customers will also require EDC to incur costs, which may be significant. However, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will succeed in significantly increasing EDC’s revenues. If we are unable to obtain the resources necessary to fund product expansion and new technology development or to increase revenues by adding to the types of manufacturing, distribution and value added services we provide to its customers, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies and EDC’s market share, gross profit margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. Development of Digital Distribution Alternatives; Including Copying and Distribution of Music and Video Files EDC’s business is dependent on the continued viability and growth of physical distribution of music and video through authorized pre-recorded media. Alternative distribution channels and methods, both authorized and unauthorized, for delivering music may erode EDC’s volume of sales and the pricing of its products and services. The growth of these alternatives is driven by advances in technology that allow for the transfer and downloading of music and video files from the Internet. The proliferation of this copying, use and distribution of such files is supported by the increasing availability and decreasing price of new technologies, such as personal video recorders, CD and DVD burners, portable MP3 music and video players, widespread access to the Internet, and the increasing number of peer-to-peer digital distribution services that facilitate file transfers and downloading. We expect that file sharing and downloading, both legal and illegal, will continue to exert downward pressure on the demand for CDs. As current technologies and delivery systems improve, the digital transfer and downloading of video files will likely become more widespread. As the speed and quality with which video files can be transferred and downloaded improves, file sharing and downloading may in the future exert significant downward pressure on the demand for DVDs. In addition, EDC’s business faces pressure from the emerging distribution alternatives, like video on demand (“VOD”) and personal digital video recorders. As substantially all of EDC’s revenues are derived from the sale of CDs and DVDs, increased file sharing, downloading and piracy or the growth of other alternative distribution channels and methods, could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to the Messaging Business Continuation and Expansion of Third Party Agreements Messaging has entered into initiatives with third parties that provide development services, products and channels-to-market enhancing the Company’s business, and additional third party arrangements are continuing to be explored. Additionally, Messaging has entered into several Original Equipment Manufacturer agreements with companies that market and distribute the messaging business’s products and intends to enter into service reseller arrangements. We are dependent upon these third parties to augment our research and development efforts as well as to distribute our products and services and increase product offerings. If these third parties are not successful or the agreements are terminated, a material adverse effect on Messaging’s business could result. We intend to continue entering into agreements and initiatives with third parties; however, there can be no assurance that additional arrangements with suitable vendors and distributors on acceptable terms will be available. Our inability to enter into agreements with third parties on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on Messaging’s business. Proprietary Technology The collective value of the intellectual property of Messaging is comprised of its patents, blueprints, specifications, technical processes and cumulative employee knowledge. Although we attempt to protect proprietary technology through a combination of trade secrets, patent, trademark and copyright law, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures, such protection may not preclude competitors from developing products with features similar to Messaging’s products. The laws of certain foreign countries in which Messaging sells or may sell its products, including South Korea, China, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, India and Brazil, do not protect proprietary rights in its intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Potential Changes in Government Regulation Many of Messaging’s products connect to public telecommunications networks. National, regional and local governments regulate telecommunications networks, and the operations of telecommunication service providers in most domestic and international markets. As a result, the Company must obtain regulatory approvals in connection with the manufacture and sale of certain of its products and the Company’s customers may need regulatory approvals to operate the system that utilize certain of Messaging’s products. In introducing products to a market, there is no assurance that the Company or its customers will obtain necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, the enactment by federal, state, local or international governments of the new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations could adversely affect the market for Messaging’s products. Potential Market Changes Resulting from Rapid Technological Advances Messaging is primarily focused on offering communications solutions to wireless and fixed network carriers, as well as broadband and cable operators worldwide. These industries are characterized by rapid technological change and are likely to experience consolidation in the next 12 to 18 months. Carrier consolidation could result in redeployment of existing capital equipment that could reduce new capital spending and in delays in capital spending decisions. The messaging business has been focused on building next-generation messaging platforms such as its Verseratm ICE platforms and communications solutions that leverage speech-driven, multimedia messaging and presence and availability technologies. Demand for these products and services may be affected by changes in technology and the development of substitute products and services by competitors. If changing technology negatively affects demand for Versera solutions, it could have a material adverse effect on Glenayre’s business. Messaging is dependent on the continued growth of its markets as well as the effective and successful convergence of technologies for its systems and related applications and solutions. The markets for these technologies are still developing and market acceptance of some of these services is uncertain. If the commercial market for these services is lower than we anticipate, or grows more slowly than we anticipate, it 15 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that these technologies will be successfully integrated or that a significant commercial market for the integrated services will develop. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 