ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our prospects are subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the following: Declining Nature of CD and DVD Industries Our business is dependent on the continued viability and growth of physical distribution of music and video through authorized pre-recorded media. Alternative distribution channels and methods, both authorized and unauthorized, for delivering music have eroded and are expected to continue to erode our volume of sales and the pricing of our products and services. The growth of these alternatives is driven by advances in technology that allow for the transfer and downloading of music and video files from the Internet. The proliferation of this copying, use and distribution of such files is supported by the increasing availability and decreasing price of new technologies, such as personal video recorders, CD and DVD burners, portable MP3 music and video players, widespread access to the Internet, and the increasing number of peer-to-peer digital distribution services that facilitate file transfers and downloading. We expect that file sharing and downloading, both legally and illegally, the introduction of new optical formats and portable personal digital devices will continue to exert downward pressure on the demand for CDs. The digital transfer and downloading of video files has become more widespread in large part due to improvement in the speed and quality with which video files can be transferred and downloaded. As a result, file sharing and downloading has also exerted significant downward pressure on the demand for DVDs. In addition, our business faces pressure from the emerging distribution alternatives, like video on demand (“VOD”) and personal digital video recorders. As substantially all of our revenues are derived from the sale of CDs and to a lesser extent DVDs, increased file sharing, downloading and piracy or the growth of other alternative distribution channels and methods, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential Intellectual Property Infringement Claims from Third Parties Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights continues in the technology industry. If we were to discover that our products violated a third party’s proprietary rights and were unable to obtain licenses on terms acceptable to us, we might not be able to continue offering those products without substantial reengineering. Reengineering efforts might result in substantial costs and product delays, and might not be successful. The industry in which EDC competes has many participants who own, or who claim to own, intellectual property for certain of the manufacturing processes we employ, the products we produce or the content produced by our customers. We pay licensing fees to certain third parties who claim to own the rights to intellectual property that we employ in our manufacturing processes or products. In addition, from time to time others may claim rights to intellectual property we employ, asserting a right to royalties or penalties for infringement. It is not possible to determine with certainty whether these or any other existing third party patents or the issuance of any new third party patents may require us to alter, or obtain licenses relating to our processes or products. New multimedia formats will likely require us to obtain additional licenses. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on favorable terms and obtaining and paying royalties on new licenses might materially increase our costs. Any intellectual property infringement claims asserted by a third party against us could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays, or require us to pay damages to or enter into licensing agreements with third party claimants. An adverse decision in an infringement claim asserted against us could result in our being prohibited from using such technology, as licensing arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Our inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Variability of Quarterly Results and Dependence on Key Customers Our manufacturing and distribution agreements with Universal accounted for approximately 76%, 87% and 91% of our 2007, 2006 and 2005 revenues, respectively. If market or other factors cause Universal to reduce or postpone significant levels of current or expected purchase commitments for our products, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. We have a business development and sales and marketing team focused on providing a high level of service to Universal as well as attracting other customers in the music, video and games markets. Our efforts to expand business with parties other than Universal may not succeed, and as a result, we may not be able to significantly reduce our dependence on Universal. 7 Table of Contents Under our agreements with Universal, we are required to deliver substantial volumes of products meeting stringent requirements. Our failure to successfully manage the production or supply of our products, including the failure to meet scheduled production and delivery deadlines, or the failure of our products to meet required quality standards, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our production levels, revenue and cash flows are largely affected by our customers’ product release schedule. The release schedule is dependent on a variety of factors such as consumer demand and the availability of marketable content. Our results of operations and cash flows in any period can be materially affected by the timing of product releases by our customers, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. In addition, the entertainment business is seasonal and, as such, we typically manufacture and distribute approximately 55% to 60% of our annual demand by volume in the second half of the calendar year. Typically the lowest demand is experienced in the first calendar quarter with the highest demand occurring in the last calendar quarter. This seasonality cycles year over year and is also influenced by our customers’ new product release schedule. Senior Secured Credit Facility EDC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility contains usual and customary restrictive covenants that, among other things, permit EDC to use the revolver only as a source of liquidity for EDC and its subsidiaries and place limitations on (i) EDC’s ability to incur additional indebtedness; (ii) our ability to pay dividends or make acquisitions outside our current industries; (iii) EDC’s ability to make any payments to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances (other than tax distributions) and (iv) asset dispositions by EDC. It also contains financial covenants relating to maximum consolidated EDC and subsidiaries leverage, minimum interest coverage and maximum senior secured leverage as defined therein. EDC’s ability to comply with these financial covenants is dependent on its future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in the Senior Secured Credit Facility may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would allow the lenders to accelerate the payment of the loans and/or terminate the commitments to lend or foreclose on collateral in addition to other legal remedies. Sensitivity to Economic Trends and Consumer Preferences Our financial performance depends on consumer demand for our customers’ products. Substantially all of the purchases of the pre-recorded media products sold by our customers are discretionary. Accordingly, weak economic conditions or outlook or varying consumer confidence could significantly reduce consumption in any of our customers’ major markets thereby causing material declines in our sales and net earnings. In addition, because of the discretionary nature of their products, our customers must continually compete for the public’s leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including legal and illegal downloading of content, box office movies, sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. As a result of this competition, demand for our customers’ products could be reduced and our sales volumes and gross profit margins could be adversely affected. Concentration of Suppliers EDC’s principle raw materials are polystyrene used in the manufacture of jewel boxes and trays (in Germany only) and polycarbonate used in the manufacture of CDs and DVDs. EDC has a limited number of suppliers who are able to provide raw materials. In Germany, we purchase polystyrene (which accounts for 8% of total cost of sales), polycarbonate (which accounts for approximately 9% of total cost of sales) and any jewel boxes and trays, not internally manufactured, (which accounts for approximately 7% of total cost of sales) from several suppliers. In the UK, we purchase polycarbonate (which accounts for approximately 11% of total cost of sales) and jewel boxes and trays (which accounts for approximately 20% of total cost of sales) from several suppliers. In the U.S., we purchase polycarbonate (which accounts for approximately 11% of total cost of sales) and jewel boxes and trays (which accounts for approximately 26% of total cost of sales) from several suppliers. These inputs are crucial to the production of CDs and DVDs and, while there are alternative suppliers of these products, it would be disruptive to EDC’s production if any of our suppliers were unable to deliver their product to EDC which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Increased Costs or Shortages of Raw Materials or Energy We purchase significant quantities of plastics (e.g., polystyrene and polycarbonate), the key raw materials used in the production of DVDs, CDs, jewel cases and trays. The availability and price of these materials may be influenced by a number of different factors, many of which are beyond our control, including weather, transportation, increased demand, production delays and the price of oil. The costs of these raw materials are passed through to Universal. The processes at our manufacturing and distribution facilities are energy-intensive. Therefore, increases in energy costs would adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. Advances in Technology, Efforts to Add Services and Changes in Customer Demands As the demands and requirements of our customers shift, we will need to modify the products and services offered to retain these customers. The costs associated with adapting our operations to these requirements will likely be significant. The initiatives we are pursuing to increase revenue by providing a wide range of manufacturing, distribution and value added services to entertainment content owners and their customers will also require us to incur costs, which may be significant. However, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will succeed in significantly increasing our revenues. If we are unable to obtain the resources necessary to fund product expansion and new technology development or to increase revenues by adding to the types of manufacturing, distribution and value added services we provide to our customers, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies and our market share, gross profit margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in the technology employed by the pre-recorded media industry and the emergence of the future generations of multimedia products, such as Blu-ray discs, may require us to extensively upgrade or alter our manufacturing processes and production facilities in order to offer the most up-to-date product variations. International Business Risks International sales are subject to the customary risks associated with international transactions, including political risks, local laws and taxes, the potential imposition of trade or currency exchange restrictions, tariff increases, transportation delays, difficulties or delays in collecting accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, exchange rate fluctuations. Accordingly, we may seek to mitigate our currency exchange fluctuation risk by entering into currency hedging transactions. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will successfully limit the risks associated with these international transactions. Limitations on NOLs Resulting from Ownership Changes As a result of certain transactions involving our common stock, we have calculated, using the best available public information as of December 11, 2007, that approximately 30% of our share base has changed hands in the past three years utilizing the methodologies outlined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“section 382”). If we had an “ownership change”, as defined in section 382, our net operating losses (“NOLs”) generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of these NOLs. Section 382 generally limits the amount of the taxable income that can be offset by a pre-change loss to the product of (i) the long-term tax exempt bond rate (published monthly by the U.S. Treasury) as of the date of the change of ownership and (ii) the value of the company’s shares immediately before the ownership change. Generally, a loss corporation incurs an “ownership change” within the meaning of section 382 if, immediately after any change in the ownership of the stock in the loss corporation affecting the percentage of stock owned by any 5% stockholder (the date of any such change is referred to as a “testing date”), the percentage of stock owned by one or more 5% stockholders, in the aggregate, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock owned by such 5% stockholders at any time during the three-year period ending on the testing date. Thus, as of any testing date, changes in stock ownership occurring more than three years prior to the testing date do not have to be taken into account when determining whether an ownership change has occurred. The amount of our NOLs have not been audited or otherwise validated by the IRS. The IRS could challenge the amount of our NOLs, which could result in an increase in our liability for income taxes. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the calculation of the amount of our NOLs may not be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. In addition, calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of section 382 and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Based upon a review of past changes in our ownership, as of December 11, 2007, we do not believe that we have experienced an ownership change (as defined under section 382) that would result in any limitation on our future ability to use these net operating loss and capital 9 Table of Contents loss carry forwards. However, the IRS or some other taxing authority may disagree with our position and contend that we have already experienced such an ownership change, which would severely limit our ability to use our NOL carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards to offset future taxable income. See Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our NOLs. Environmental Laws and Regulations Our manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to environmental laws and requirements that may impose material costs or liabilities on us. Our facilities are subject to a range of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the environment. These include laws and regulations that govern discharges into the air, water and landfills and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations and enforcement policies may require us to incur capital and other costs, which may materially adversely affect future financial conditions. Such costs, or related third-party personal injury or property damage claims, could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Ability to Attract and Retain Key Personnel Our continued growth and success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of senior management and other key employees, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuously recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. The loss of one or more key or other employees or our inability to attract additional qualified employees or retain other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Competition Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than us and we may be unable to successfully compete with these competitors. In addition, competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on our profit margins in the future. Volatility of Stock Price The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors such as announcements of technological developments or new products, developments in relationships with our customers, strategic alliances and partnerships, potential acquisitions and strategic investments, technological advances by existing and new competitors, general market conditions in our industries and changes in government regulations. Continued NASDAQ Listing In January 2008, we received notification from Nasdaq that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) and were provided with 180 calendar days, or until July 2, 2008, to regain compliance. Alternatively, we can apply to transfer our common stock to The Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy the applicable listing requirements, other than the bid price requirement, either during the first 180 day period or after July 2, 2008. If our application is approved, we will be afforded a second 180 calendar day compliance period in order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If we are unable to regain compliance with the Nasdaq criteria, our common stock may be delisted. In such an event, our shares could only be traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board system. This method of trading could impair the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. In addition, we may become subject to special rules, called “penny stock” rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 10 Table of Contents 