ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our prospects are subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the following: Current Global and Economic Downturn EDC. EDC’s business has been negatively impacted by the current global downturn. If this downturn is prolonged or worsens, there could be several severely negative implications that may exacerbate many of the risk factors we identified below including, but not limited to, the following: ● Liquidity: o The global economic downturn and the associated credit crisis could continue or worsen and reduce liquidity and this could have a negative impact on financial institutions and the global financial system, which would, in turn, have a negative impact on EDC and its creditors. o Credit insurers could drop coverage on EDC’s customers and increase premiums, deductibles and co-insurance levels on remaining or prospective coverage. o EDC’s suppliers could tighten trade credit which could negatively impact EDC’s liquidity. ● Counterparty risk: o EDC’s customers, vendors and their suppliers may become insolvent and file for bankruptcy, which could negatively impact its results of operations ● Demand: o EDC’s financial performance depends on consumer demand for its customers’ products. Substantially all of the purchases of the pre-recorded media products sold by EDC’s customers are discretionary. Accordingly, weak economic conditions or outlook or varying consumer confidence could significantly reduce consumption in any of its customers’ major markets thereby causing material declines in sales and net earnings. In addition, because of the discretionary nature of EDC’s products, EDC’s customers must continually compete for the public’s leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including legal and illegal downloading of content, box office movies, sporting events, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. As a result of this competition, demand for EDC’s customers’ products could be reduced and sales volumes and gross profit margins could be adversely affected. EDCI. As a cause and effect of the global downturn, various sectors of the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the disruption in credit markets and availability of credit and other financing. Uncertainty over the extent and degree of the global downturn also creates substantial uncertainty with regard to the fundamentals of many industries. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on EDCI’s ability to find acquisition opportunities that meet its acquisition criteria, obtain financing necessary (if desired) to effectively execute its acquisition strategy and on the resulting value of any consummated acquisition or the market value of its investment portfolio. 8 Risks Related to EDCI’s Acquisition Strategy In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business for a potential acquisition, EDCI expects to encounter intense competition from other entities having a similar business objective, including private equity groups, blank check companies, venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, and operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Moreover, many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than us, which will give them a competitive advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. EDCI may not be able to successfully identify such a business, obtain financing for such acquisition (if desired), or successfully operate any business acquired. Even if EDCI identifies an appropriate acquisition opportunity, it may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for that acquisition. EDCI may be unable to select, manage, absorb or integrate any future acquisitions successfully. Any acquisition, even if effectively integrated, may not benefit EDCI’s stockholders. Any acquisition may involve a number of unique risks including: (i) executing successful due diligence; (ii) exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and (iii) EDCI’s ability to integrate and absorb the acquired company successfully. Because EDCI may consummate an acquisition of a company in any industry and is not limited to any particular type of business there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry of an acquired business. If EDCI completes an acquisition with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, EDCI may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although EDCI management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, EDCI cannot assure you that it will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if EDCI management properly assesses those risks, some of them may be outside of its control. Declining Nature of CD and DVD Industries EDC’s business is dependent on the continued viability of physical distribution of music and video through authorized pre-recorded media. Alternative distribution channels and methods, both authorized and unauthorized, for delivering music have eroded and are expected to continue to erode the volume of sales and the pricing of products and services. Because EDC’s business has high fixed costs, EDC has limited ability to reduce costs in response to unit declines. The growth of these alternatives is driven by advances in technology that allow for the transfer and downloading of music and video files from the Internet. The proliferation of this copying, use and distribution of such files is supported by the increasing availability and decreasing price of new technologies, such as personal video recorders, CD and DVD burners, portable MP3 music and video players, widespread access to the Internet, and the increasing number of peer-to-peer digital distribution services that facilitate file transfers and downloading. EDC expects that file sharing and downloading, both legally and illegally, the introduction of new optical formats and portable personal digital devices will continue to exert downward pressure on the demand for CDs. The digital transfer and downloading of video files has become more widespread in large part due to improvement in the speed and quality with which video files can be transferred and downloaded. As a result, file sharing and downloading has also exerted significant downward pressure on the demand for DVDs. In addition, EDC’s business faces pressure from the emerging distribution alternatives, like video on demand (“VOD”) and personal digital video recorders. As substantially all of EDC’s revenues are derived from the sale of CDs and to a lesser extent DVDs, increased file sharing, downloading and piracy or the growth of other alternative distribution channels and methods, could materially adversely affect EDC’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Blackburn – Hannover Consolidation On March 20, 2009, the Board of Directors of EDC approved a plan to consolidate EDC’s Blackburn, UK ("EDC Blackburn") and Hannover, Germany ("EDC Germany")manufacturing activities within the Hannover facility (the “Consolidation”). EDC will incur significant costs in connection with the Consolidation and the plan will require the consent of the lenders pursuant to EDC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility. These types of plans involve numerous risks, such as the diversion of management and employee attention; disruptions in customer, employee and vendor relationships, and execution risks. These factors, as well as any delays in implementing the plan or industry declines beyond those assumed in the plan, could increase the costs associated with the plan and reduce the financial benefit of the plan. EDC Germany has entered into an agreement to provide financial support of up to £5.0 million to EDC Blackburn to ensure that EDC Blackburn does not fall into insolvency due to over indebtedness or illiquidity resulted from the planned closure of the Blackburn facility. 9 Potential Intellectual Property Infringement Claims from Third Parties Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights continues in the CD and DVD manufacturing industry. In addition, EDCI remains liable for certain intellectual property indemnity obligations related to discontinued businesses, including the international messaging business, the assets of which were sold during in December 2006 and the Paging business which EDCI began exiting in May 2001. The industry in which EDC competes has many participants who own, or who claim to own, intellectual property for certain of the manufacturing processes EDC employs, the products EDC produces or the content produced by its customers. EDC pays licensing fees to certain third parties who claim to own the rights to intellectual property that EDC employs in its manufacturing processes or products. In addition, from time to time others may claim rights to intellectual property EDC employs, asserting a right to royalties or penalties for infringement. It is not possible to determine with certainty whether these or any other existing third party patents or the issuance of any new third party patents may require EDC to alter or obtain licenses relating to our processes or products. New multimedia formats will likely require EDC to obtain additional licenses. EDC may not be able to obtain any such licenses on favorable terms and obtaining and paying royalties on new licenses might materially increase its costs, which will decrease our profits. Any intellectual property infringement claims asserted by a third party against us could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays, or require us to pay damages to or enter into licensing agreements with third party claimants. An adverse decision in an infringement claim asserted against EDC could result in it being prohibited from using such technology, as licensing arrangements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. EDC’s inability to license the infringed or similar technology on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Variability of Quarterly Results and Dependence on Key Customers EDC’s manufacturing and distribution agreements with Universal accounted for approximately 73%, 74% and 83% of our 2008, 2007 and 2006 revenues, respectively. If market or other factors cause Universal to reduce or postpone significant levels of current or expected purchase commitments for EDC’s products, EDC’s operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. EDC has a business development and sales and marketing team focused on providing a high level of service to Universal as well as attracting other customers in the music, video and games markets. Efforts to expand business with parties other than Universal may not succeed, and as a result, EDC may not be able to significantly reduce its dependence on Universal. Under the agreements with Universal, EDC is required to deliver substantial volumes of products meeting stringent requirements. Failure to successfully manage the production or supply of products, including the failure to meet scheduled production and delivery deadlines, or the failure of products to meet required quality standards, can result in significant penalties under the agreements with Universal. Repeated failures, even if such failures are ultimately corrected, can result in significant liquidated damages, the right by Universal to source EDC volumes from third parties, and in some cases, the right of Universal to terminate the agreements, which events would materially adversely affect EDC’s business, operating results and financial condition. EDC’s production levels, revenue and cash flows are largely affected by its customers’ product release schedule. The release schedule is dependent on a variety of factors such as consumer demand and the availability of marketable content. EDC’s results of operations and cash flows in any period can be materially affected by the timing of product releases by its customers, which may result in significant fluctuations from period to period. In addition, the entertainment business is seasonal and, as such, EDC typically manufactures and distributes approximately 53% to 58% of its annual demand by volume in the second half of the calendar year. Typically the lowest demand is experienced in the first calendar quarter with the highest demand occurring in the last calendar quarter. This seasonality cycles year over year and is also influenced by customers’ new product release schedule. Senior Secured Credit Facility EDC’s Senior Secured Credit Facility contains usual and customary restrictive covenants that, among other things, permit EDC to use the revolver only as a source of liquidity for EDC and its subsidiaries and place limitations on (i) EDC’s ability to incur additional indebtedness; (ii) EDC’s ability to make any payments to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances (other than tax distributions) and (iii) asset dispositions by EDC. It also contains 10 financial covenants relating to maximum consolidated EDC and subsidiaries leverage, fixed charge coverage and maximum senior secured leverage as defined therein. EDC’s ability to comply with these financial covenants is dependent on its future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. EDC’s failure to comply with any of these restrictions in the Senior Secured Credit Facility may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would allow the lenders to accelerate the payment of the loans and/or terminate the commitments to lend or foreclose on EDC’s collateral in addition to other legal remedies. At December 31, 2008, EDC was not in compliance with one of its financial covenants as a result of the impairment of intangible assets in 2008; however, the credit agreement was amended to exclude those impairment charges from the applicable covenants. Increased Costs or Shortages of Raw Materials or Energy EDC purchases significant quantities of plastics (e.g., polystyrene and polycarbonate), the key raw materials used in the production of DVDs, CDs, jewel cases and trays. The availability and price of these materials may be influenced by a number of different factors, many of which are beyond EDC’s control, including weather, transportation, increased demand, production delays and the price of oil. The costs of these raw materials are passed through to Universal, but not for most other customers. EDC’s manufacturing and distribution facilities are energy-intensive and increases in energy costs would adversely affect its gross margins and results of operations. International Business Risks EDC’s international sales are subject to the customary risks associated with international transactions, including political risks, local laws and taxes, the potential imposition of trade or currency exchange restrictions, tariff increases, transportation delays, difficulties or delays in collecting accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign Currency Translation and Transaction Risks The financial position and results of operations of EDC’s international subsidiaries are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a negative impact on our reported sales and operating margin (and conversely, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a positive impact). For the year ended December 31, 2008, we estimate that foreign currency translation favorably impacted sales and gross margin by approximately $2.1 million and $0.5 million, respectively when compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially adversely affect our operating results. Limitations on NOLs Resulting from Ownership Changes and Transfer Restrictions As a result of certain transactions involving EDCIH’s common stock, we have calculated, using the best available public information as of December 31, 2008, that approximately 26.6% of EDCIH’s share base has changed hands in the past three years utilizing the methodologies outlined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“section 382”). If EDCI had an “ownership change”, as defined in section 382, EDCI’s net operating losses (“NOLs”) generated prior to the ownership change would be subject to annual limitations, which could reduce, eliminate, or defer the utilization of these NOLs. Section 382 generally limits the amount of the taxable income that can be offset by a pre-change loss to the product of (i) the long-term tax exempt bond rate (published monthly by the U.S. Treasury) as of the date of the change of ownership and (ii) the value of the company’s shares immediately before the ownership change. Generally, a loss corporation incurs an “ownership change” within the meaning of section 382, if immediately after any change in the ownership of the stock in the loss corporation affecting the percentage of stock owned by any 5% stockholder (the date of any such change is referred to as a “testing date”), the percentage of stock owned by one or more 5% stockholders, in the aggregate, has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock owned by such 5% stockholders at any time during the three-year period ending on the testing date. Thus, as of any testing date, changes in stock ownership occurring more than three years prior to the testing date do not have to be taken into account when determining whether an ownership change has occurred. As a result of a reorganization completed on August 25, 2008, EDCIH’s common stock is subject to transfer restrictions designed to protect the NOLs by restricting any person from buying or selling EDCIH’s stock (or any interest in EDCIH’s stock) if the transfer would result in a stockholder (or several stockholders, in the aggregate, 11 who hold their stock as a “group” under the federal securities laws) owning 5% or more of EDCIH’s stock. The purpose of these restrictions is to limit direct or indirect transfers of stock of EDCIH that would affect the percentage of stock that is treated as being owned by 5% stockholders. Stockholders who owned more than 5% of the Company’s stock immediately prior to the reorganization are allowed to sell their existing shares, other than in a transaction creating a new 5% shareholder, or acquire additional shares of EDCIH common stock representing up to one-half of 1% of the total outstanding shares of EDCIH’s common stock immediately following the reorganization. These restrictions protect the Company from third party transactions creating new 5% groups that could cause an ownership change, but we must continue to monitor the ownership change in issuing new shares or repurchasing existing shares, and in doing so, must account for the possibility of the pre-existing 5% stockholders selling their stock, which sales would also have an impact on the ownership change. The amount of EDCI’s NOLs and the percentage of EDCI's share based that has changed hands have not been audited or otherwise validated by the IRS or others. The IRS could challenge the amount of EDCI’s NOLs, which could result in an increase in our liability for income taxes to the extent the NOLs are realized for income tax purposes. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the calculation of the amount of our NOLs may not be changed as a result of a challenge by a governmental authority or our learning of new information about the ownership of, and transactions in, our securities. In addition, calculating whether an ownership change has occurred is subject to uncertainty, both because of the complexity and ambiguity of section 382 and because of limitations on a publicly traded company’s knowledge as to the ownership of, and transactions in, its securities. Based upon a review of past changes in our ownership, as of December 31, 2008, we do not believe that EDCI has experienced an ownership change (as defined under section 382) that would result in any limitation on our future ability to use these net operating loss and capital loss carry forwards. However, the IRS or some other taxing authority may disagree with that position and contend EDCI has already experienced such an ownership change, which would severely limit our ability to use our NOL carry forwards and capital loss carry forwards to offset future taxable income. Potential Anti-Takeover Effect of the Transfer Restrictions Although the transfer restrictions are designed as a protective measure to preserve the NOLs, the transfer restrictions may have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even if such a transaction may be favorable to the interests of some or all of the stockholders of EDCIH. This effect might prevent stockholders from realizing an opportunity to sell all or a portion of their shares of common stock of EDCIH at a premium above market prices. In addition, the transfer restrictions may delay the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of the common stock of EDCI Holdings and the removal of incumbent directors and management, even if such removal may be beneficial to some or all of the stockholders of EDCIH. Environmental Laws and Regulations EDCI’s manufacturing and distribution operations are subject to environmental laws and requirements that may impose material costs or liabilities. EDC’s facilities are subject to a range of laws and regulations relating to the environment. These include laws, regulations and enforcement policies that govern discharges and / or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes into the air, water and landfills. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations and enforcement policies may require EDCI to incur capital and other costs, which may materially adversely affect future financial conditions. Such costs, or related third-party personal injury or property damage claims, could have a material adverse affect on EDC’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Ability to Attract and Retain Key Personnel Our continued growth and success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of senior management and other key employees, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuously recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. The loss of one or more key or other employees or our inability to attract additional qualified employees or retain other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Competition Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and operating resources than us and we may be unable to successfully compete with these competitors. In addition, competitive pricing pressures may have an adverse effect on our profit margins in the future. 12 Volatility of Stock Price The market price of EDCIH’s common stock is volatile. The market price of EDCIH’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results and other factors such as announcements of technological developments or new products, developments in relationships with our customers, strategic alliances and partnerships, potential acquisitions and strategic investments, technological advances by existing and new competitors, general market conditions in our industries and changes in government regulations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 