Risk Factors In addition to risk and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results. We have provided below a list of these risks factors that should be reviewed when considering our business and securities. These are not all the risks we face, and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and our future profitability on a quarterly or annual basis is uncertain, which could have a harmful effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Our consolidated statements of operations and our statements of operating cash flows reveal significant losses and the utilization of significant amounts of cash to support our operating activities. Although a substantial portion of the net loss in prior years was related to non-cash charges, there can be no assurance that adequate sources of financing will be obtained as required or that our assets will be realized and liabilities settled in the ordinary course of business. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability of assets that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern nor the potential need to make sizable payments in connection with pending litigation. In order to continue as a going concern, we will require additional financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or, if available, that it can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we are involved in litigation that can have an adverse effect on our operations. If an unfavorable ruling with these legal matters occurs, we may be forced to either restructure operations, or take other necessary and appropriate measures that could potentially limit our ability to exist further as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” If we are unable to successfully implement our business plan and secure equity financing, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, in their report with respect to our financial statements as of June 30, 2008, and for two years in the period ended June 30, 2008, included a “going concern” qualification. As discussed in Note 2 to the audited financial statements, we have incurred significant losses and have negative cash flows from operations for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, have a working capital deficiency and shareholders’ deficiency at June 30, 2008 and are currently involved in litigation that can have -12- an unfavorable effect on the Company’s operations. We plan to improve cash flow through continued focus, deployment and promotion of our energy conservation segment and the underlying technology associated with our EnerLume|EM®. We also plan to continue our efforts to identify ways of reducing operating costs and to increase liquidity through additional equity or debt financing. We have financed our operations since inception primarily through equity and debt financings. We have recently entered into a number of financing transactions and are continuing to seek other financing initiatives. We will need to raise additional capital to implement our business plan. Such capital is expected to come from the sale of securities or the raising of additional debt. No assurance can be given that such financing will be available in sufficient amounts or at all. Our ability to continue our operations will be dependent upon obtaining such further financing. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending litigation could require additional funding. If such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Such an outcome could have important consequences. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; · restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and · increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. Because our share price has been volatile, we may be the target of additional securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. We can provide no assurance that our share price will remain stable on a going-forward basis. Such litigation, coupled with existing shareholder litigation, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Effective control by current officers and directors and significant sales of shares by officers and directors could have a negative impact on share price. As of September 22, 2008, our officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own 21.42% of the total voting stock outstanding, including options, convertible securities and warrants for common stock such individuals may have the right to exercise. Our articles of incorporation do not authorize cumulative voting -13- in the election of directors and, as a result, our officers and directors are in a position to have a significant impact on the outcome of substantially all matters on which shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors. In addition, based on the large number of shares currently owned by management, any sales of significant amounts of shares by our officers and directors, or the prospect of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These individuals, if and when they sell their shares, are subject to the volume limitations imposed by Rule 144 with respect to sales by affiliates. We may be required to reduce or eliminate some or all of our sales and marketing efforts or research and development activities if we fail to obtain additional funding that may be required to satisfy future capital needs. We plan to continue to spend substantial funds to expand our sales and marketing efforts and our research and development activities related to our energy conservation product. Any cash generated from the operations of the on-going business, and/or other current sources of liquidity, the long-term financing of these marketing activities could require additional funding in the future. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, the cost and timing of sales and marketing, manufacturing and research and development activities, and competitive developments. Any additional required financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain financing, we may be required to reduce or eliminate some or all of these activities. Any decrease in capital spending by our potential “end user” customer markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our “end user” target markets include distribution centers, warehouses, retail store chains, parking garages and the like. The capital spending policies of our potential “end user” customers can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Such policies are based on a variety of factors, including the resources available to make such purchases, spending priorities and policies regarding capital expenditures. Any decrease in capital spending by our potential “end user” customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any failure to obtain and sustain market acceptance of our product could have a material adverse effect on our plan for growth and on our business and results of operations. Our product represents alternatives and new concepts to traditional instruments and methods. As a result, our product may be slow to achieve, or may not achieve, market acceptance, as customers may seek further validation of the efficiency and efficacy of our technology. This is particularly true where the purchase of the product requires a significant capital commitment. Our failure to obtain and sustain such acceptances could have a material adverse effect on our plan for growth and on our business and results of operations. Any changes in government regulations may adversely affect consumer demand for our products. The market for our product in the United States is subject to or influenced by various domestic laws and acts. We design, develop and market our products to meet customer needs created by existing and anticipated regulations, and any changes in these regulations may adversely affect consumer demand for our products. We have a limited operating history as an energy efficiency product company upon which to evaluate our potential for future success. Due to our limited operating history, it is difficult to forecast our future success. To date, we have generated only limited revenues as an electrical energy efficiency products and services company. Significant marketing investment will be required in order to establish a sufficient market for our electrical energy efficiency product and build revenues. The technology underlying this product may not -14- become a preferred technology to address the energy management needs of our customers and potential customers. Failure to successfully develop and market future products on a timely and cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the energy management market. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by early stage companies in an evolving market. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business will be materially harmed. Our energy services segment has incurred significant operating losses since inception and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. The energy services segment’s failure to achieve profitability could result in our failure to continue as a going concern. Our electrical energy services segment incurred losses in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 of $25,750 and $2,044,706, respectively. We must overcome significant sales and operational challenges. In addition, our electrical energy services segment may be required to reduce the prices of its services in order to increase sales. If we reduce prices, we may not be able to decrease costs sufficiently to achieve acceptable profit margins. As our electrical energy services segment strives to grow its business, we expect to spend significant funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital, marketing, recruiting and hiring additional personnel, and research and development. To the extent that revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. If our electrical energy services segment experiences slower than anticipated revenue growth or if its operating expenses exceed its expectations, we may be required to cease operations. Even if it achieves profitability in the future, it may not be able to sustain it. Our electrical energy services segment currently experiences volatility in its cash flows and is subject to an extended sales cycle in connection with the bidding process, purchasing of materials and the installation and testing of electrical systems. This business cycle could lead to significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our electrical energy services segment is currently obligated, pursuant to the majority of its installation and service contracts, to pay all the costs of materials, labor, travel and installation of its systems prior to being paid by its customers. In addition, many of its projects extend over a lengthy period of time from the initial invitation to bid, to final installation and testing. Although our electrical energy services segment hopes to shorten this cycle, there can be no assurance its cash flow will improve or that it can profitably market this concept. If this trend continues or worsens due to the inability to convince our customers to pay as the project progresses from its initial stages through completion, our energy services segment’s cash flow and operating losses will continue to be significant, and we may be required to cease operations. Patents and other proprietary rights provide uncertain protection of our proprietary information and our inability to protect a third party patent or other proprietary right may harm our business. The patent position of companies engaged in the sale of products such as ours is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Issued patents can later be held invalid by a patent office or by a court. We cannot assure you that the pending patent rights to the technology for our EnerLume|EM® will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us a competitive advantage. In addition, many other organizations are engaged in research and development of products similar to our energy conservation analytical instrumentation. Such organizations may currently have or may obtain in the future, legally blocking proprietary rights, including patent rights, in one or more products or methods under development or consideration by us. These rights may prevent us from commercializing new technology, or may require us to obtain a license from the organizations to use their technology. -15- We currently have limited trademark or patent protection with respect to the energy efficiency product developed. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could result in substantial operating losses and the failure to effectively pursue our business plan. We cannot assure that any patents, trademarks or copyrights or our other proprietary rights issued to, licensed or otherwise used by us, will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, others may be able independently to develop substantially equivalent or superseding proprietary technology and an equivalent product or system may be marketed in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of any proprietary rights we may obtain in the future. We also may not be able to protect our proprietary technology from duplication. Additionally, the prevention of unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property will likely become more difficult as our business grows. We could incur additional legal costs in defending any patent, trademark, copyright or other infringement claims or in asserting any patent rights, copyrights or other proprietary rights, including those granted by third parties, in a suit with another party. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our overall results of operations. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important proprietary rights. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property in various technology industries. In the future, we may be notified of allegations that we may be infringing on intellectual property rights with respect to the technology we are currently marketing for our electrical energy efficiency device. Should litigation be brought against us, such litigation could be extremely expensive and time consuming and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Such litigation could also result in loss of certain proprietary rights, significant monetary liability and barriers to product manufacturing. Our future in energy efficiency largely depends upon the success of our EnerLume|EM® which relies solely upon the inherent software and firmware for its implementation as an energy savings device, for which we have contracted with the manufacturer for the ownership of the intellectual property. We anticipate expanding into new products utilizing this existing technology. Any potential successful litigation would stop the progress of our product line and seriously impede our ability to expand into the energy conservation industry. While our service division would continue to maintain contractual relationships with existing clients, our product line would cease. Any successful litigation against our intellectual property could materially harm our business. Our energy products segment faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of its products results in injury. Product liability claims that fall outside of our insurance coverage would further contribute to our negative cash flows. Our energy products segment faces the risk that materials used in the manufacture of the final product may be flawed or faulty, causing the product to fail or malfunction. Additionally, the product may not be used in the manner provided for in the instructions or in the way contemplated by the manufacturer. In the event that insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is not adequate, product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business. The successful assertion or settlement of any uninsured claim, a significant number of insured claims, or a claim exceeding our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business. -16- Our energy products segment faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of its products results in injury. Negative publicity related to a product liability claim could lead to the loss of customers and corresponding revenues. Our energy products segment is highly dependent upon consumer perception of the safety and quality of our product, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. While our EnerLume|EM® is listed by Underwriter’s Laboratories, a nationally recognized safety standard that tests products for reasonably foreseeable risk of fire, electric shock and related hazards, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on our operations, regardless of whether such reports are scientifically supported and regardless of whether the products are being used to their specifications. Our service segment does not have any long-term agreements with our customers and our future success is dependent on repeat business and obtaining new customers. Our electrical energy service segment’s success depends on attracting and retaining customers. Although we have client purchase orders, we do not have long-term contracts and depend on fluctuating demand for our product or services. One major service customer accounted for approximately 39.3% of our revenue for the 2008 fiscal year. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing customers or attract new customers. The failure to retain existing customers or attract new customers would likely have a material adverse effect on future profitability. The energy management industry and products designed to maximize energy efficiency are subject to rapidly changing customer demands and preferences in light of rapid technological advances. We will face substantial losses should our products not meet the demands of customers. There can be no assurance that customers will continue to favor the product and services provided by us. A significant shift in customer preferences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, products that gain wide acceptance with consumers may result in a greater number of competitors entering the market, which could result in downward price pressure that could adversely impact our gross profit margins. In addition, new products would require employee retraining, which we must commit to long before the ultimate sale to our customers. There can be no assurance that sufficient consumer demand will still exist at the time a final product is available for sale or that favorable gross profit margins will be maintained. We believe our growth will be materially dependent upon our ability to provide new technologies, processes and products necessary to meet the needs of our customers and potential customers. The inability to anticipate and respond to these rapidly changing demands could have an adverse effect on our business. The energy management industry is highly competitive. Our failure to effectively compete in the industry could result in operating losses and the inability to continue as a going concern. Numerous companies, many of which have greater assets, personnel, distribution and other resources than us, compete with us in supplying newer and more technologically-advanced products and services. Our principal competition comes from similar companies that install products designed to maximize energy efficiency. With generally low barriers to entry, particularly in terms of employee training, additional competitors could enter the market. There can be no assurance that national or international companies will not seek to enter, or increase their presence in the industry. Several companies market and sell products that compete with us. Competition from any of these companies could have a material adverse effect on our operations. -17- There is limited reliable, comprehensive data available regarding the size of the energy management industry and the historic and future expected growth of such industry. We may be unable to implement our business plan, which is based on available data, resulting in operating losses and the potential inability to continue as a going concern. Industry data and projections are inherently uncertain and subject to change. There can be no assurance that the industry is as large as we anticipated or that projected growth will occur or continue. In addition, underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that an adverse change in the size or growth rate of the market will not have a material adverse effect on our business.A decrease in electric retail rates could lessen demand for our energy efficiency product. Energy efficiency products have the greatest profit potential in areas where commercial electric rates are relatively high. However, retail electric rates for commercial establishments in the United States may not remain at their current high levels. Due to a potential overbuilding of power generating stations throughout certain regions of the United States, wholesale power prices may decrease in the future. Because the price of commercial retail electric power is largely attributed to the wholesale cost of power, it is reasonable to expect that commercial retail rates may decrease as well. In addition, much of the wholesale costs of power are directly related to the price of certain fuels, such as natural gas, oil and coal. If the prices of those fuels decrease, the prices of the wholesale cost of power may also decrease. This could result in lower electric retail rates and reduced demand for our energy saving devices or to be developed devices. Failure to effectively market our energy efficiency product could impair our ability to sell large quantities of our product. One of the challenges we face in commercializing our energy efficiency product is demonstrating the advantages of our product over more traditional products and competitive products. As our energy products segment grows, we will need to further develop our marketing and sales force. If we are unable to expand our internal sales force, our ability to generate significant revenues could be harmed. We depend upon our key personnel and may experience difficulty attracting and retaining key employees. The failure to retain existing management or the failure to hire new talent as needed could result in our inability to profitably and professionally run our business. The future success of our business depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our operating executive officers, including David Murphy, CEO and Ronald Sparks, the President of RS Services. Although we have employment agreements with these individuals, the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mr. Sparks has highly technical, electrical skills relating to electrical services, specific knowledge of high voltage applications and extensive relationships with clients and suppliers in sales, marketing and manufacturing. The loss of the services of Mr. Sparks and other key personnel, or our inability to attract or retain additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future success in energy products and services will hinge upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain the current highly-skilled managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel we require to grow and operate profitability. -18- Production of our EnerLume|EM® depends on our manufacturer’s ability to purchase raw materials and components. The failure to procure materials and increases in component costs may result in our inability to profitably run our business. Raw materials and components constitute a significant portion of our manufacturer’s cost of goods. Factors that are largely beyond our control, such as movements in commodity prices for the specific materials required, may affect the future cost of raw materials and components. In addition, the inability of our manufacturer to timely procure raw materials or components could be disruptive and costly. If we are unable to obtain product on a timely basis at an affordable cost or if we experience any significant delays or interruptions of supply, our financial results could be significantly impacted. Risks Related to Our Securities Any future fundraising efforts will dilute current shareholder ownership interests. Any investor who purchases our securities could face future dilution as we pursue future equity fundraising. As of September 22, 2008, we had 13,924,612 outstanding shares of common stock. Any future material equity fundraising efforts will have the effect of increasing the amount of shares outstanding, thereby creating dilution for our existing shareholders. We believe that the most efficient manner in increasing shareholder value is to properly and effectively execute our business plan, which will require raising additional capital. We have partnered with investment banking firms to assist and achieve this initiative, and will continue our efforts to raise additional capital, via equity financings or otherwise, until we can achieve positive cash flow. Our common stock currently trades on the OTCBB trading platform, which could result in limited liquidity for any investor purchasing our securities. There is a limited trading market for our common stock on the OTCBB and the ability to trade our common stock on the OTCBB depends on the presence and investment decisions of willing buyers and sellers. There can be no guarantee that our common stock will be accepted for quotation by any other quotation system, market or exchange. As such, our stock has the potential for very limited liquidity and marketability. Our common stock is considered “penny stock,” which may make selling the common stock difficult. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” under the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under the rules, stock is considered “penny stock” if: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or even if quoted, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues at less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our stock but must trade it on an unsolicited basis. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stocks.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of -19- evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. We do not plan to pay cash dividends to holders of common stock. Investors must rely on appreciation of our securities as the sole method to realize a gain on their investment. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of our common stock at any time. It is the present policy of the Board of Directors to retain all earnings to provide for our growth. Accordingly, investors in our securities must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of common stock will ever appreciate in value. Investors seeking cash dividends should not buy our securities. Historically, our stock price has been volatile, which may make it more difficult to resell shares at prices that are attractive. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price fluctuated in response to a number of events and factors, such as announcements from management, quarterly variations in operating results, or new customer accounts and acquisitions by us or our competitors, changes to financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. If we issue shares of preferred stock, your investment could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Articles of Incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. Although we have no plans to issue any shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our Board of Directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock and warrants or subordinate your holdings to the shares of preferred stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 