ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information and data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Intense competition in the restaurant industry could make it more difficult to expand our business and could also have a negative impact on our operating results if customers favor our competitors or we are forced to change our pricing and other marketing strategies. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. In each of our markets, our restaurants compete with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as locally owned restaurants, offering low and medium-priced fare. We also compete with convenience stores, delicatessens and prepared food counters in grocery stores, supermarkets, cafeterias and other purveyors of moderately priced and quickly prepared food. Pollo Tropical’s competitors include national chicken-based concepts, such as Boston Market and Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC), and regional chicken-based concepts as well as quick-service hamburger restaurant chains and other types of quick-casual restaurants. Our Taco Cabana restaurants, although part of the quick-casual segment of the restaurant industry, compete with quick-service restaurants, including those in the quick-service Mexican segment such as Taco Bell, other quick-casual restaurants and traditional casual dining Mexican restaurants. With respect to our Burger King restaurants, our largest competitors are McDonald’s and Wendy’s restaurants. To remain competitive, we, as well as certain of the other major quick-casual and quick-service restaurant chains, have increasingly offered selected food items and combination meals at discounted prices. These changes in pricing and other marketing strategies have had, and in the future may continue to have, a negative impact on our sales and earnings. Factors specific to the quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments may adversely affect our results of operations, which may cause a decrease in earnings and revenues. The quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments are highly competitive and can be materially adversely affected by many factors, including: • changes in local, regional or national economic conditions; • changes in demographic trends; • changes in consumer tastes; • changes in traffic patterns; • increases in fuel prices, including a continuation of the current relatively higher levels of gasoline prices; • consumer concerns about health and nutrition; • increases in the number of, and particular locations of, competing restaurants; • inflation; • increases in utility costs; • increases in the cost of food, such as beef and chicken, and packaging; • consumer dietary considerations; • increased labor costs, including healthcare and minimum wage requirements; • regional weather conditions; and • the availability of experienced management and hourly-paid employees. 24 Table of Contents Our continued growth depends on our ability to open and operate new restaurants profitably, which in turn depends on our continued access to capital, and newly acquired or developed restaurants may not perform as we expect and we cannot assure you that our growth and development plans will be achieved. Our continued growth depends on our ability to develop additional Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants and to selectively acquire and develop additional Burger King restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including the following: • the inability to fund development; • development costs that exceed budgeted amounts; • delays in completion of construction; • the inability to obtain all necessary zoning and construction permits; • the inability to identify, or the unavailability of, suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms; • developed restaurants that do not achieve desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; • incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event a development project is abandoned prior to completion; • the inability to recruit, train and retain managers and other employees necessary to staff each new restaurant; • changes in governmental rules, regulations and interpretations; and • changes in general economic and business conditions. We cannot assure you that our growth and development plans can be achieved. Our development plans will require additional management, operational and financial resources. For example, we will be required to recruit and train managers and other personnel for each new restaurant. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively and our failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our ability to open new restaurants and to grow, as well as our ability to meet other anticipated capital needs, will depend on our continued access to external financing, including borrowings under our senior credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital we need on acceptable terms or at all, which could materially adversely affect our business. Additionally, we may encounter difficulties growing beyond our presence in our existing core markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow our market presence beyond the current key regions within our existing markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors in new areas. In addition, we may be unable to find attractive locations or successfully market our products as we attempt to expand beyond our existing core markets, as the competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in these new areas may differ substantially from those in areas in which we currently operate. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate our new restaurants outside our core markets. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with the area. Some of our new restaurants are and will be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets or to incur losses. An additional risk of expanding into new markets is the lack of market awareness of the Pollo Tropical or Taco Cabana brand. Restaurants opened in new markets may open at lower average weekly sales volumes than restaurants opened in existing markets, and may have higher restaurant-level operating expense ratios than in existing markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach average unit volumes, if at all, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. 25 Table of Contents Opening new restaurants in areas in which we have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our restaurants may include costs related to the opening, operation and promotion of those restaurants that are substantially greater than those incurred by our restaurants in other areas. Even though we may incur substantial additional costs with respect to these new restaurants, they may attract fewer customers than our more established restaurants in existing markets. We could be adversely affected by additional instances of “mad cow” disease, “avian” flu or other food-borne illness, as well as widespread negative publicity regarding food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns. Negative publicity about food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns (including health implications of obesity and transfatty acids) or similar issues stemming from one restaurant or a number of restaurants could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether they pertain to our own restaurants or to restaurants owned or operated by other companies. For example, health concerns about the consumption of beef or chicken or by specific events such as the outbreak of “mad cow” disease or “avian” flu could lead to changes in consumer preferences, reduce consumption of our products and adversely affect our financial performance. These events could reduce the available supply of beef or chicken or significantly raise the price of beef or chicken. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our operational controls and employee training will be effective in preventing food-borne illnesses, food tampering and other food safety issues that may affect our restaurants. Food-borne illness or food tampering incidents could be caused by customers, employees or food suppliers and transporters and, therefore, could be outside of our control. Any publicity relating to health concerns or the perceived or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or other food safety issues attributed to one or more of our restaurants, could result in a significant decrease in guest traffic in all of our restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, similar publicity or occurrences with respect to other restaurants or restaurant chains could also decrease our guest traffic and have a similar material adverse effect on us. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had $358.5 million of outstanding indebtedness, including $118.4 million of indebtedness under our prior senior credit facility, as defined in “Item 6—Selected Financial Data,” (excluding $15.0 million of outstanding letters of credit and $35.0 million of unused revolving credit borrowing availability under our prior senior credit facility), $180 million of 9% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 (the “Notes”), $58.6 million of lease financing obligations and $1.5 million of capital leases. On March 9, 2007, Carrols terminated its prior senior credit facility and entered into a loan agreement providing for a new senior credit facility with a syndicate of lenders (which we refer to herein as “new senior credit facility”). Our new senior credit facility totals approximately $185.0 million, consisting of $120.0 million principal amount of term loan A borrowings maturing on March 8, 2013 (or earlier on September 30, 2012 if the Notes are not refinanced by June 30, 2012) and a $65.0 million revolving credit facility (including a sub limit of up to $25.0 million for letters of credit and up to $5.0 million for swingline loans), maturing on March 8, 2012. As a result, we are a highly leveraged company. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • it will limit our ability to borrow money to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; • a substantial portion of our operating cash flow will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness and related interest, including indebtedness we may incur in the future; • our interest expense would increase if interest rates in general increase because a substantial portion of our indebtedness, including all of our indebtedness under our senior credit facility, bears interest at floating rates; 26 Table of Contents • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities; • we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, industry or the economy in general; and • there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still incur significantly more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. Although covenants under our new senior credit facility and the Indenture (the “Indenture”) dated as of December 15, 2004 among Carrols, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York, as trustee, governing the Notes limit our ability and the ability of our present and future restricted subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, the terms of our new senior credit facility and the Indenture governing the Notes permit us to incur significant additional indebtedness, including unused availability under our new revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2006, we had $35.0 million available for additional revolving credit borrowings under our prior senior credit facility (after reserving for $15.0 million of letters of credit outstanding), subject to compliance with customary borrowing conditions. The new senior credit facility provides for a $65.0 million revolving credit facility of which $4.3 million was borrowed upon the close of the new senior credit facility on March 9, 2007 (excluding $15.0 million reserved for outstanding letters of credit). In addition, neither the new senior credit facility nor the Indenture governing the Notes prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness as defined in those documents. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks associated with our substantial leverage described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from our future operations and on our continued access to external sources of financing. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings under the new senior credit facility or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. If we complete an acquisition, our debt service requirements could increase. A substantial portion of our indebtedness, including all of our indebtedness under the new senior credit facility, bears interest at floating rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, our debt service requirements will increase. We may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance or restructure any of our indebtedness, including the new senior credit facility and the Notes, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service or refinance or restructure our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, upon the incurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we must offer to purchase the Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the purchase date. We may not have sufficient funds available to make any required repurchases of the Notes, and restrictions under our new senior credit facility may not allow that repurchase. If we fail to repurchase the Notes in that circumstance, we 27 Table of Contents will be in default under the Indenture governing the Notes and, under cross-default clauses; we will also be in default under the new senior credit facility. In addition, certain change of control events will constitute an event of default under the new senior credit facility. A default under the new senior credit facility could result in an event of default under the Indenture if the administrative agent or the lenders accelerate the debt under the new senior credit facility. In the event of a default under our new senior credit facility or the Indenture, the holders of the applicable indebtedness generally would be able to declare all of that indebtedness to be due and payable as described in the following risk factor. Upon the occurrence of a change of control we could seek to refinance the indebtedness under the new senior credit facility and the Notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders or the noteholders. We cannot assure you, however, that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, in which case we might be required to sell assets to satisfy our repayment obligations. Any future debt that we incur may also contain provisions requiring the repayments of that debt upon the occurrence of similar change of control events or restrictions on repayment of the Notes or borrowings under our new senior credit facility upon a change of control. Restrictive covenants in the new senior credit facility and the Indenture governing the Notes may restrict our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies; and defaults under our debt instruments may allow the lenders to declare borrowings due and payable. The new senior credit facility and the Indenture governing the Notes limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make certain other restricted payments or investments; • sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • agree to limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make distributions; • enter into transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates; • incur liens; • enter into new lines of business; and • engage in consolidations, mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. In addition, the new senior credit facility requires us to comply with various operational and other covenants and restricts our ability to prepay our subordinated indebtedness. Also, the prior senior credit facility required and the new senior credit facility requires, us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios, including fixed charge coverage, senior leverage and total leverage ratios (as such terms are defined in the new senior credit facility). At December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with such covenants under the prior senior credit facility. At December 31, 2006, under the prior senior credit facility, our fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.41 to 1.00 which was in excess of the required minimum fixed charge coverage ratio under the prior senior credit facility at December 31, 2006 of 1.25 to 1.00, our senior leverage ratio was 1.33 to 1.00 which was lower than the maximum allowable senior leverage ratio under the prior senior credit facility at December 31, 2006 of 2.50 to 1.00 and our total leverage ratio was 3.32 to 1.00 which was lower than the maximum allowable total leverage ratio under the prior senior credit facility at December 31, 2006 of 5.00 to 1.00. However, our ability to comply with these ratios under the new senior credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control. Any other debt instruments we enter into in the future may also have provisions similar to those described above. The restrictions contained in the Indenture governing the Notes and the new senior credit facility and in any other debt instruments we may enter into in the future could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and 28 Table of Contents • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. As noted above, our ability to remain in compliance with agreements and covenants in our debt instruments depends upon our results of operations and may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial and industry conditions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with those agreements and covenants. In the event of a default under our new senior credit facility or the Indenture and in any other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, the holders of the applicable indebtedness generally would be able to declare all of that indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the new senior credit facility are secured by a pledge of all of the outstanding capital stock of Carrols and its material subsidiaries and, in the event of a default under that facility, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Moreover, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the new senior credit facility, the commitment of the lenders to make any further loans to us would be terminated. Any such actions or events could force us into bankruptcy and liquidation and we cannot provide any assurance that we could repay our obligations under the new senior credit facility or the Notes or any other indebtedness we may incur in the future. Moreover, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated following a default. Accordingly, the occurrence of a default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the Burger King system and our ability to renew our franchise agreements with Burger King Corporation. The failure to renew our franchise agreements or Burger King’s failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the nature of franchising and our agreements with BKC, our success is, to a large extent, directly related to the success of the nationwide Burger King system. In turn, the ability of the nationwide Burger King system to compete effectively depends upon the success of the management of the Burger King system and the success of its advertising programs and new products. We cannot assure you that Burger King will be able to compete effectively with other quick-service restaurants. As a result, any failure of Burger King to compete effectively would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Under each of our franchise agreements with BKC, we are required to comply with operational programs established by BKC. For example, our franchise agreements with BKC require that our restaurants comply with specified design criteria. In addition, BKC generally has the right to require us during the tenth year of a franchise agreement to remodel our restaurants to conform to the then-current image of Burger King, which may require the expenditure of considerable funds. In addition, although not required by the franchise agreements, we may not be able to avoid adopting menu price discount promotions instituted by BKC that may be unprofitable. Our franchise agreements typically have a 20-year term after which BKC’s consent is required to receive a successor franchise agreement. Our franchise agreements with BKC that are set to expire over the next three years are as follows: • 18 of our franchise agreements with BKC are due to expire in 2007; • 28 of our franchise agreements with BKC are due to expire in 2008; and • 17 of our franchise agreements with BKC are due to expire in 2009. We cannot assure you that BKC will grant each of our future requests for successor franchise agreements, and any failure of BKC to renew our franchise agreements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as a condition of approval of a successor franchise agreement, BKC may require us to make capital improvements to particular restaurants to bring them up to Burger King current image standards, which may require us to incur substantial costs. 29 Table of Contents In addition, our franchise agreements with BKC do not give us exclusive rights to operate Burger King restaurants in any defined territory. Although we believe that BKC generally seeks to ensure that newly granted franchises do not materially adversely affect the operations of existing Burger King restaurants, we cannot assure you that franchises granted by BKC to third parties will not adversely affect any Burger King restaurants that we operate. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In the past, we have identified and reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective. In addition, we may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement or that constitute material weaknesses. A material weakness is a control deficiency (within the meaning of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2), or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We are continuing to work to improve our internal controls. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to remediate material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or to implement and maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or could result in defaults under our new senior credit facility, the Indenture governing the Notes or under any other debt instruments we may enter into in the future. Deficiencies in our internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will not have to restate our financial statements in the future. We have undergone several restatements of our financial statements. In response to this situation, we have taken what we believe to be the necessary measures to ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. However, there can be no assurance that future restatements will not be necessary due to evolving policies, revised or new accounting pronouncements or other factors. Any future restatements of our financial statements could cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations or could result in defaults under our new senior credit facility, the Indenture governing the Notes or under any other debt instruments we may enter into in the future. Future restatements of our financial statements could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may incur significant liability or reputational harm if claims are brought against us or against our franchisees. We or our franchisees may be subject to complaints, regulatory proceedings or litigation from guests or other persons alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered in our premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns, including environmental claims. In addition, in recent years a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break, meal break and overtime compensation issues and, in the case of quick service restaurants, alleging that they have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that their marketing practices have encouraged obesity. We may also be subject to litigation or other actions initiated by governmental authorities, our employees and our franchisees, among others, based upon these and other matters. For example, in November 1998, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (the “EEOC”) filed suit in the 30 Table of Contents United States District Court for the Northern District of New York against Carrols, alleging that Carrols engaged in a pattern and practice of unlawful discrimination, harassment and retaliation against former and current female employees. Although the case was dismissed by the court, subject to possible appeal by the EEOC, the court noted that it was not ruling on the claims, if any, that individual employees might have against Carrols. A significant judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance or liquidity. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations or occurrences or alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one of our locations, a number of our locations or our franchisees could adversely affect our business, regardless of whether the allegations are true, or whether we are ultimately held liable. Any cases filed against us could materially adversely affect us if we lose such cases and have to pay substantial damages or if we settle such cases. In addition, any such cases may materially and adversely affect our operations by increasing our litigation costs and diverting our attention and resources to address such actions. In addition, if a claim is successful, our insurance coverage may not cover or be adequate to cover all liabilities or losses and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or to obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we suffer losses, liabilities or loss of income in excess of our insurance coverage or if our insurance does not cover such loss, liability or loss of income, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Our franchisees could take actions that harm our reputation and reduce our franchise revenues. As of December 31, 2006, a total of 30 Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants were owned and operated by our franchisees. We do not exercise control of the day-to-day operations of our franchisees. While we attempt to ensure that franchisee-owned restaurants maintain the same high operating standards as our company-owned restaurants, one or more of these franchisees may fail to meet these standards. Any shortcomings at our franchisee-owned restaurants are likely to be attributed to our company as a whole and could adversely affect our reputation and damage our brands, as well as have a direct negative impact on franchise revenues we receive from these franchisees If the sale/leaseback market requires significantly higher yields, we may not enter into sale/leaseback transactions and as a result would not receive the related net proceeds. From time to time, we sell our restaurant properties in sale-leaseback transactions. We historically have used, and intend to use, the net proceeds from such transactions to reduce outstanding debt and fund future capital expenditures for new restaurant development. However, the sale-leaseback market may cease to be a reliable source of additional cash flows for us in the future if capitalization rates become less attractive or other unfavorable market conditions develop. For example, should the sale-leaseback market require significantly higher yields (which may occur as interest rates rise), we may not enter into sale-leaseback transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to reduce outstanding debt and fund new capital expenditures for future restaurant development. Changes in consumer taste could negatively impact our business. We obtain a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of hamburgers, chicken, various types of sandwiches, and Mexican and other ethnic foods. The quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, often accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns and are subject to changing consumer preferences, tastes, and eating and purchasing habits. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits, as well other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. We may be forced to make changes in our menu items in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns, and we may lose customers who do not prefer the new menu items. In recent years, numerous companies in the quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments have introduced products positioned to capitalize on the growing consumer preference for food products that are, or are perceived to be, healthy, nutritious, low in calories and low in fat content. If we do not or, in the case of our Burger King 31 Table of Contents restaurants, if BKC does not, continually develop and successfully introduce new menu offerings that appeal to changing consumer preferences or if we do not timely capitalize on new products, our operating results will suffer. In addition, any significant event that adversely affects consumption of our products, such as cost, changing tastes or health concerns, could adversely affect our financial performance. If a significant disruption in service or supply by any of our suppliers or distributors were to occur, it could create disruptions in the operations of our restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financial performance is dependent on our continuing ability to offer fresh, quality food at competitive prices. If a significant disruption in service or supply by certain of our suppliers or distributors were to occur, it could create disruptions in the operations of our restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For our Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants, we have negotiated directly with local and national suppliers for the purchase of food and beverage products and supplies. Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants’ food and supplies are ordered from approved suppliers and are shipped via distributors to the restaurants. For our Pollo Tropical restaurants, Henry Lee, a division of Gordon Food Service, serves as our primary distributor of food and paper products under an agreement that expires on May 15, 2007. For our Taco Cabana restaurants, SYGMA Network, Inc. serves as our primary distributor of food and beverage products and supplies under a distribution services agreement that expires on June 1, 2009. We also rely on Gold Kist under an agreement that expires on December 31, 2007 as our supplier and distributor of chicken for our Pollo Tropical restaurants and if Gold Kist is unable to service us, this could lead to a material disruption of service or supply until a new supplier is engaged which could have a material adverse effect on our business. With respect to our distributors for our Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants, if any of our distributors is unable to service us, this could lead to a material disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For our Burger King restaurants, we are a member of a national purchasing cooperative, Restaurant Services, Inc., which serves as the purchasing agent for approved distributors to the Burger King system. We are required to purchase all of our foodstuffs, paper goods and packaging materials from BKC-approved suppliers for our Burger King restaurants. We currently utilize three distributors, Maines Paper & Food Service, Inc., Reinhart Food Service L.L.C. and MBM Food Service Inc., to supply our Burger King restaurants with the majority of their foodstuffs in various geographical areas and, as of December 31, 2006, such distributors supplied 63%, 32% and 5%, respectively of our Burger King restaurants. Although we believe that we have alternative sources of supply available to our Burger King restaurants, in the event any distributors or suppliers for our Burger King restaurants are unable to service us, this could lead to a disruption of service or supply at our Burger King restaurants until a new distributor or supplier is engaged, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If labor costs increase, we may not be able to make a corresponding increase in our prices and our operating results may be adversely affected. Wage rates for a substantial number of our employees are at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal and/or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to the employees at wage rates which are above the minimum wage, which will increase our costs. To the extent that we are not able to raise our prices to compensate for increases in wage rates, this could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The efficiency and quality of our competitors’ advertising and promotional programs and the extent and cost of our advertising could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, should the cost of television or radio advertising increase, should our advertising funds materially decrease for any reason, or should our advertising and promotion be less effective than our competitors’, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In that regard, the success of our Burger King restaurants also depends in part upon advertising campaigns and promotions by BKC. 32 Table of Contents Newly acquired or developed restaurants may reduce sales at our neighboring restaurants. We intend to continue to open restaurants in our existing core markets, particularly the core markets served by our Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants. To the extent that we open a new restaurant in the vicinity of one or more of our existing restaurants within the same chain, it is possible that some of the customers who previously patronized those existing restaurants may choose to patronize the new restaurant instead, reducing sales at those existing restaurants. Accordingly, to the extent we open new restaurants in our existing markets, sales at some of our existing restaurants in those markets may decline. Our business is regional and we therefore face risks related to reliance on certain markets. As of December 31, 2006, excluding our franchised locations, all but two of our Pollo Tropical restaurants were located in Florida and approximately 96% of our Taco Cabana restaurants were located in Texas. Also, as of December 31, 2006, 65% of our Burger King restaurants were located in New York and Ohio. Therefore, the economic conditions, state and local government regulations, weather conditions or other conditions affecting Florida, Texas, New York and Ohio and the tourism industry affecting Florida may have a material impact on the success of our restaurants in those locations. For example, the events of September 11, 2001 had a significant negative impact on tourism in Florida, which adversely impacted the revenues and operating results at our Pollo Tropical restaurants. Many of our restaurants are located in regions that may be susceptible to severe weather conditions. As a result, adverse weather conditions in any of these areas could damage these restaurants, result in fewer guest visits to these restaurants and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our business was adversely impacted in the fourth quarter of 2005 and in the future may be adversely affected by hurricanes and severe weather in Florida and Texas. We cannot assure you that the current locations of our existing restaurants will continue to be economically viable or that additional locations will be acquired at reasonable costs. The location of our restaurants has significant influence on their success. We cannot assure you that current locations will continue to be economically viable or that additional locations can be acquired at reasonable costs. In addition, the economic environment where restaurants are located could decline in the future, which could result in reduced sales in those locations. We cannot assure you that new sites will be profitable or as profitable as existing sites. The loss of the services of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management, including Alan Vituli, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel T. Accordino, President and Chief Operating Officer, who have substantial experience in the restaurant industry. We believe that it would be extremely difficult to replace Messrs. Vituli and Accordino with individuals having comparable experience. Consequently, the loss of the services of Mr. Vituli or Mr. Accordino could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Government regulation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the development and operation of restaurants, including regulations relating to the following: • zoning; • the preparation and sale of food; • liquor licenses which allow us to serve alcoholic beverages at our Taco Cabana restaurants; 33 Table of Contents • employer/employee relationships, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements; • federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination and laws regulating design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990; and • federal and state regulations governing the operations of franchises, including rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. In the event that legislation having a negative impact on our business is adopted, you should be aware that it could have a material adverse impact on us. For example, substantial increases in the minimum wage could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Local zoning or building codes or regulations and liquor license approvals can cause substantial delays in our ability to build and open new restaurants. Local authorities may revoke, suspend or deny renewal of our liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Any failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. If one of our employees sells alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated or minor patron, we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the patron. We serve alcoholic beverages at our Taco Cabana restaurants and are subject to the “dram-shop” statutes of the jurisdictions in which we serve alcoholic beverages. “Dram-shop” statutes generally provide that serving alcohol to an intoxicated or minor patron is a violation of the law. In most jurisdictions, if one of our employees sells alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated or minor patron we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the patron. We cannot guarantee that those patrons will not be served or that we will not be subject to liability for their acts. Our liquor liability insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover any potential liability and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or we may face increased deductibles on such insurance. Any increase in the number or size of “dram-shop” claims could have a material adverse effect on us as a result of the costs of defending against such claims; paying deductibles and increased insurance premium amounts; implementing improved training and heightened control procedures for our employees; and paying any damages or settlements on such claims. Federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials could expose us to liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. We own and lease numerous parcels of real estate on which our restaurants are located. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts of law that could adversely affect our operations. Also, if contamination is discovered on properties owned or operated by us, including properties we owned or operated in the past, we can be held liable for severe penalties and costs of remediation. These penalties could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. Our leases generally have initial terms of 20 years, and typically provide for renewal options in five year increments as well as for rent escalations. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is 34 Table of Contents not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our monetary obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying all amounts due for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations. We may, in the future, seek to pursue acquisitions and we may not find restaurant companies that are suitable acquisition candidates or successfully operate or integrate any restaurant companies we may acquire. We may in the future seek to acquire other restaurant chains. Although we believe that opportunities for future acquisitions may be available from time to time, increased competition for acquisition candidates exists and may continue in the future. Consequently, there may be fewer acquisition opportunities available to us as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, manage or successfully integrate acquired restaurant companies without substantial costs, delays or operational or financial problems. In the event we are able to acquire other restaurant companies, the integration and operation of the acquired restaurants may place significant demands on our management, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We also face the risk that our existing systems, procedures and financial controls will be inadequate to support any restaurant chains we may acquire and that we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations and financial systems of any chains we may acquire with our own systems. While we may evaluate and discuss potential acquisitions from time to time, we currently have no understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions. We may be required to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. Both the new senior credit facility and the Indenture governing the Notes contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from incurring additional debt or acquiring additional restaurant chains. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal and international trademark and service mark registrations, including the Pollo Tropical name and logo and Taco Cabana name and logo, and proprietary rights relating to certain of our core menu offerings. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We, therefore, devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. We are not aware of any assertions that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, but we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of out common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The fluctuations could cause a loss of all or part of an 35 Table of Contents investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the trading price of our common stock may include, but are not limited to the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of companies generally or restaurant companies (including BKC) in particular; • actual or anticipated variations in the earnings or operating results of our company or our competitors; • actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • market conditions or trends in our industry and the economy as a whole; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • capital commitments; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales by our directors and officers. In addition, if the market for restaurant company stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry (including BKC) or related industries even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action securities litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. The concentrated ownership of our capital stock by insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors and funds managed by entities affiliated with Madison Dearborn Partners, LLC (“Madison Dearborn”) and BIB Holdings (Bermuda) Ltd. (“BIB”) together own approximately 45.5% of our common stock outstanding. In particular, BIB and funds managed by affiliates of Madison Dearborn in the aggregate each owned approximately 17.2% of our outstanding common stock outstanding, based on shares outstanding as of March 16, 2007. In addition, our executive officers and directors (excluding directors affiliated with Madison Dearborn and BIB) together owned approximately 11.1% of our common stock outstanding, based on shares outstanding as of March 16, 2007. As a result, our executive officers and these directors, if they act as a group, and BIB and the funds managed by affiliates of Madison Dearborn will be able to significantly influence matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and acquisitions. The directors will have the authority to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt and the declaration of dividends. BIB and the funds managed by Madison Dearborn may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Corporate action might be taken even if 36 Table of Contents other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately depress the market price of our common stock. A substantial number of shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale in the near future, which could cause our common stock price to decline significantly. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 16, 2007, we had 21,550,826 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 9,925,286 shares sold in the IPO are freely tradable, 466,521 additional shares of common stock will be available for sale in the public market approximately 90 days after December 14, 2006, and 11,159,019 additional shares of common stock will be available for sale in the public markets 180 days after December 14, 2006 (subject to possible extension by up to an additional 34 days) following the expiration of the lock-up agreements entered into by our executive officers and directors and some of our stockholders in connection with the IPO. However, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Banc of America Securities LLC, the lead underwriters in the IPO, may, in their sole discretion and at any time or from time to time, without notice, release all or any portion of the shares subject to the lock-up agreements. In addition, holders of 9,561,382 shares of our common stock have the right to require us to register those shares under the Securities Act or to include those shares in subsequent registration statements we may file with the SEC, in each case to enable the holders to sell those shares in the public markets. In addition, an aggregate of 74,700 shares of restricted common stock and options to purchase an aggregate of 1,251,950 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our 2006 Stock Incentive Plan as of March 16, 2007, and we intend, in the near future, to register these shares of restricted stock and the shares issuable upon exercise of those options, as well as the other shares available for issuance under our 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and the Indenture governing the Notes and the new senior credit facility limit Carrols’ ability to pay dividends to us and consequently our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The absence of a dividend on our common stock may increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock or make it more likely that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the event of adverse economic conditions or adverse developments affecting our company. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a result, for us to pay dividends, we would need to rely on dividends or distributions to us from Carrols and indirectly from subsidiaries of Carrols. The Indenture governing the Notes and the new senior credit facility limit, and the debt instruments that we and our subsidiaries may enter into in the future may limit, the ability of Carrols and its subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We cannot assure you that these analysts will publish research or reports about us or that any analysts that do so will not discontinue publishing research or reports about us in the future. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If analysts do not publish reports about us or if one or more analysts cease coverage of our stock, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 37 Table of Contents Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require that special meetings of our stockholders be called only by our board of directors or certain of our officers, thus prohibiting our stockholders from calling special meetings; • deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to dilute the voting and economic rights of our common stock and to discourage a takeover attempt; • provide that approval of our board of directors or a supermajority of stockholders is necessary to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws and that approval of a supermajority of stockholders is necessary to amend, alter or change certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • divide our board into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered 3-year term, which generally increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the directors; • provide that directors only may be removed for cause by a majority of the board or by a supermajority of our stockholders; and • require that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company prior to completion of the IPO. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the SEC, and The NASDAQ Stock Market regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that compliance with these public company requirements will increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming. For example, we may be required to adopt additional internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. A number of those requirements will require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. For example, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007 we will need to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent accountants will need to issue an opinion on that assessment and the effectiveness of those controls. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our accountants identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions of us. We also expect that it will be difficult and expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of being a public company or the timing of such costs. 38 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 