ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information and data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Intense competition in the restaurant industry could make it more difficult to expand our business and could also have a negative impact on our operating results if customers favor our competitors or we are forced to change our pricing and other marketing strategies. The restaurant industry is highly competitive. In each of our markets, our restaurants compete with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as locally owned restaurants, offering low and medium-priced fare. We also compete with convenience stores, delicatessens and prepared food counters in grocery stores, supermarkets, cafeterias and other purveyors of moderately priced and quickly prepared food. Pollo Tropical’s competitors include national and regional chicken-based concepts as well as quick-service hamburger restaurant chains and other types of quick-service and quick-casual restaurants. Our Taco Cabana restaurants compete with quick-service restaurants, including those in the quick-service Mexican segment, other quick-casual restaurants and traditional casual dining Mexican restaurants. With respect to our Burger King restaurants, our largest competitors are McDonald’s and Wendy’s restaurants. 25 Table of Contents To remain competitive, we, as well as certain of the other major quick-casual and quick-service restaurant chains, have increasingly offered selected food items and combination meals at discounted prices. These pricing and other marketing strategies have had, and in the future may have, a negative impact on our sales and earnings. Factors applicable to the quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments may adversely affect our results of operations, which may cause a decrease in earnings and revenues. The quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments are highly competitive and can be materially adversely affected by many factors, including: • changes in local, regional or national economic conditions; • changes in demographic trends; • changes in consumer tastes; • changes in traffic patterns; • increases in fuel prices and utility costs; • consumer concerns about health, diet and nutrition; • increases in the number of, and particular locations of, competing restaurants; • changes in discretionary consumer spending; • inflation; • increases in the cost of food, such as beef, chicken, produce and packaging; • increased labor costs, including healthcare, unemployment insurance and minimum wage requirements; • the availability of experienced management and hourly-paid employees; and • regional weather conditions. Our continued growth depends on our ability to open and operate new restaurants profitably, which in turn depends on our continued access to capital, and newly acquired or developed restaurants may not perform as we expect and we cannot assure you that our growth and development plans will be achieved. Our continued growth depends on our ability to develop additional Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including the following: • the inability to fund development; • development costs that exceed budgeted amounts; • delays in completion of construction; • the inability to obtain all necessary zoning and construction permits; • the inability to identify, or the unavailability of, suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms; • developed restaurants that do not achieve desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; • incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event a development project is abandoned prior to completion or a new restaurant is closed due to poor financial performance; • the inability to recruit, train and retain managers and other employees necessary to staff each new restaurant; • changes in or interpretations of governmental rules and regulations; and • changes in general economic and business conditions. 26 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that our growth and development plans can be achieved. Our long-term development plans will require additional management, operational and financial resources. For example, we will be required to recruit and train managers and other personnel for each new restaurant. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively and our failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our ability to open new restaurants and to grow, as well as our ability to meet other anticipated capital needs, will depend on our continued access to external financing, including borrowing under our new secured credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital we need at acceptable terms or at all, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, our need to manage our financial leverage ratios in connection with the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities may reduce our ability to develop new restaurants. Additionally, we may encounter difficulties growing beyond our presence in our existing markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow our market presence beyond our existing markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors in new areas. In addition, we may be unable to find attractive locations or successfully market our products as we attempt to expand beyond our existing markets, as the competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in these new areas may differ substantially from those in areas in which we currently operate. We may also not open a sufficient number of restaurants in new markets to adequately leverage distribution, supervision and marketing costs. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully or profitably operate our new restaurants outside our existing markets. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to a lack of market awareness of our brands. Some of our new restaurants are and will be located in areas where there is a limited or a lack of market awareness of the Pollo Tropical or Taco Cabana brand and therefore it may be more challenging for us to attract customers to our restaurants. Restaurants opened in new markets may open at lower average weekly sales volumes than restaurants opened in existing markets, and may have lower restaurant-level operating margins than in existing markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach average unit volumes, if at all, thereby adversely affecting our operating results, including the recognition of future impairment and other lease charges. Opening new restaurants in areas in which potential customers may not be familiar with our restaurants may include costs related to the opening and marketing of those restaurants that are substantially greater than those incurred by our restaurants in other areas. Even though we may incur substantial additional costs with respect to these new restaurants, they may attract fewer customers than our more established restaurants in existing markets. We may, in the future, seek to pursue acquisitions and we may not find restaurant companies that are suitable acquisition candidates or successfully operate or integrate any restaurant companies we may acquire. We may in the future seek to acquire other restaurant chains or additional Burger King restaurants. Although we believe that opportunities for future acquisitions may be available from time to time, increased competition for acquisition candidates exists and may continue in the future. Consequently, there may be fewer acquisition opportunities available to us as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, manage or successfully integrate acquired restaurant companies without substantial costs, delays or operational or financial problems. In the event we are able to acquire other restaurant companies, the integration and operation of the acquired restaurants may place significant demands on our management, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We also face the risk that our existing systems, procedures and financial controls will be inadequate to support any restaurant chains we may acquire and that we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations and financial systems of any chains we may acquire with our own systems. While we may evaluate and discuss potential acquisitions from time to time, we currently have no understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions. We may be required to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able 27 Table of Contents to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. Both the new Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Fiesta Restaurant Group Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2016 (the “Fiesta Notes”) contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from incurring additional debt or acquiring additional restaurant chains. We could be adversely affected by food-borne illnesses, as well as widespread negative publicity regarding food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns. Negative publicity about food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns (including health implications of obesity) or similar issues stemming from one restaurant or a number of restaurants could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether they pertain to our own restaurants or to restaurants owned or operated by other companies. For example, health concerns about the consumption of beef or chicken or by specific events such as the outbreak of “mad cow” disease or “avian” flu could lead to changes in consumer preferences, reduce consumption of our products and adversely affect our financial performance. These events could also reduce the available supply of beef or chicken or significantly raise the price of beef or chicken. In addition, we cannot guarantee that our operational controls and employee training will be effective in preventing food-borne illnesses, food tampering and other food safety issues that may affect our restaurants. Food-borne illness or food tampering incidents could be caused by customers, employees or food suppliers and transporters and, therefore, could be outside of our control. Any publicity relating to health concerns or the perceived or specific outbreaks of food-borne illnesses, food tampering or other food safety issues attributed to one or more of our restaurants, could result in a significant decrease in guest traffic in all of our restaurants and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, similar publicity or occurrences with respect to other restaurants or restaurant chains could also decrease our guest traffic and have a similar material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the Burger King system and our ability to renew our franchise agreements with Burger King Corporation. The failure to renew our franchise agreements or Burger King’s failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the nature of franchising and our agreements with BKC, our success is, to a large extent, directly related to the success of the nationwide Burger King system. In turn, the ability of the nationwide Burger King system to compete effectively depends upon the success of the management of the Burger King system and the success of its advertising programs and new products. We cannot assure you that Burger King will be able to compete effectively with other quick-service restaurants. As a result, any failure of Burger King to compete effectively would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Under each of our franchise agreements with BKC, we are required to comply with operational programs established by BKC. For example, our franchise agreements with BKC require that our restaurants comply with specified design criteria. In addition, BKC generally has the right to require us during the tenth year of a franchise agreement to remodel our restaurants to conform to the then-current image of Burger King, which may require the expenditure of considerable funds. In addition we may not be able to avoid adopting menu price discount promotions or permanent menu price decreases instituted by BKC that may be unprofitable. Our franchise agreements typically have a 20-year term after which BKC’s consent is required to receive a successor franchise agreement. Our franchise agreements with BKC that are set to expire over the next three years are as follows: • 19 of our franchise agreements with BKC are due to expire in 2012; • 12 of our franchise agreements with BKC are due to expire in 2013; and • 13 of our franchise agreements with BKC are due to expire in 2014. 28 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that BKC will grant each of our future requests for successor franchise agreements, and any failure of BKC to renew our franchise agreements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, as a condition of approval of a successor franchise agreement, BKC may require us to make capital improvements to particular restaurants to bring them up to Burger King current image standards, which may require us to incur substantial costs. In addition, our franchise agreements with BKC do not give us exclusive rights to operate Burger King restaurants in any defined territory. Although we believe that BKC generally seeks to ensure that newly granted franchises do not materially adversely affect the operations of existing Burger King restaurants, we cannot assure you that franchises granted by BKC to third parties will not adversely affect any Burger King restaurants that we operate. We may incur significant liability or reputational harm if claims are brought against us or against our franchisees. We or our franchisees may be subject to complaints, regulatory proceedings or litigation from guests or other persons alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered in our premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns, including environmental claims. In addition, in recent years a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage, rest break, meal break and overtime compensation issues and, in the case of quick service restaurants, alleging that they have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high fat or high sodium foods and that their marketing practices have encouraged obesity. We may also be subject to litigation or other actions initiated by governmental authorities, our employees and our franchisees, among others, based upon these and other matters. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations or occurrences or alleged discrimination or other operating issues stemming from one of our locations, a number of our locations or our franchisees could adversely affect our business, regardless of whether the allegations are true, or whether we are ultimately held liable. Any cases filed against us could materially adversely affect us if we lose such cases and have to pay substantial damages or if we settle such cases. In addition, any such cases may materially and adversely affect our operations by increasing our litigation costs and diverting our attention and resources to address such actions. In addition, if a claim is successful, our insurance coverage may not cover or be adequate to cover all liabilities or losses and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance, or to obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we suffer losses, liabilities or loss of income in excess of our insurance coverage or if our insurance does not cover such loss, liability or loss of income, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. Our franchisees could take actions that harm our reputation. As of January 1, 2012, a total of 36 Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants were owned and operated by our franchisees. We do not exercise control of the day-to-day operations of our franchisees. We expect our number of franchised restaurants to increase in the future as a result of our international franchising strategy for Pollo Tropical. While we attempt to ensure that franchisee-owned restaurants maintain the same high operating standards as our company-owned restaurants, one or more of these franchisees may fail to meet these standards. Any shortcomings at our franchisee-owned restaurants could be attributed to our company as a whole and could adversely affect our reputation and damage our brands. If the sale-leaseback market requires significantly higher yields, we may not enter into sale-leaseback transactions and as a result would not receive the related net proceeds. From time to time, we sell our restaurant properties in sale-leaseback transactions. We historically have used, and intend to use, the net proceeds from such transactions to reduce outstanding debt and fund future capital expenditures for new restaurant development. However, the sale-leaseback market may cease to be a 29 Table of Contents reliable source of additional cash flows for us in the future if capitalization rates become less attractive or other unfavorable market conditions develop. For example, should the sale-leaseback market require significantly higher yields (which may occur as interest rates rise), we may not enter into sale-leaseback transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to reduce outstanding debt and fund capital expenditures for future restaurant development. Changes in consumer taste could negatively impact our business. We obtain a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of hamburgers, chicken, various types of sandwiches, and Caribbean, Mexican and other ethnic foods. If consumer preferences for these types of foods change, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, often accompanied by substantial promotional campaigns and are subject to changing consumer preferences, tastes, and eating and purchasing habits. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes and dining and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the restaurant industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. We may be forced to make changes to our menu items in order to respond to changes in consumer tastes or dining patterns, and we may lose customers who do not prefer the new menu items. In recent years, numerous companies in the quick-casual and quick-service restaurant segments have introduced products positioned to capitalize on the growing consumer preference for food products that are, or are perceived to be, promoting good health, nutritious, low in calories and low in fat content. If we do not or, in the case of our Burger King restaurants, if Burger King Corporation does not, continually develop and successfully introduce new menu offerings that appeal to changing consumer preferences or if we do not timely capitalize on new products, our operating results could suffer. In addition, any significant event that adversely affects consumption of our products, such as cost, changing tastes or health concerns, could adversely affect our financial performance. If a significant disruption in service or supply by any of our suppliers or distributors were to occur, it could create disruptions in the operations of our restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financial performance is dependent on our continuing ability to offer fresh, quality food at competitive prices. If a significant disruption in service or supply by our suppliers or distributors were to occur, it could create disruptions in the operations of our restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on us. For our Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants, we have negotiated directly with local and national suppliers for the purchase of food and beverage products and supplies. Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants’ food and supplies are ordered from approved suppliers and are shipped via distributors to the restaurants. For our Pollo Tropical restaurants, Performance Food Group, Inc. is our primary distributor of food and paper products under an agreement that expires on May 15, 2012. Also for our Pollo Tropical restaurants Kelly Food Service is our primary distributor for chicken under an agreement that expires on December 31, 2012. We currently rely on two suppliers under agreements that expire on December 31, 2012 as our suppliers of chicken for our Pollo Tropical restaurants. For our Taco Cabana restaurants, SYGMA Network, Inc. is our primary distributor of food and beverage products and supplies under a distribution services agreement that expires on June 30, 2014. With respect to our distributors for our Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants, if our suppliers or distributors were unable to service us, this could lead to a material disruption of service or supply until a new supplier or distributor is engaged, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For our Burger King restaurants, we are a member of a national purchasing cooperative, Restaurant Services, Inc., which serves as the purchasing agent for approved distributors to the Burger King system. We are required to purchase all of our foodstuffs, paper goods and packaging materials from BKC-approved suppliers for our Burger King restaurants. We currently utilize three distributors, Maines Paper & Food Service, Inc., Reinhart Food Service L.L.C. and MBM Food Service Inc., to supply our Burger King restaurants with the 30 Table of Contents majority of their foodstuffs in various geographical areas and, as of January 1, 2012, such distributors supplied 64%, 32% and 4%, respectively of our Burger King restaurants. Although we believe that we have alternative sources of supply available to our Burger King restaurants, in the event any distributors or suppliers for our Burger King restaurants are unable to service us, this could lead to a disruption of service or supply at our Burger King restaurants until a new distributor or supplier is engaged, which could have an adverse effect on our business. If labor costs increase, we may not be able to make a corresponding increase in our prices and our operating results may be adversely affected. Wage rates for a substantial number of our employees are above the federal and or state minimum wage rates. As federal and/or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to the employees at wage rates which are above the minimum wage, which will increase our costs. To the extent that we are not able to raise our prices to compensate for increases in wage rates, including increases in state unemployment insurance costs or other costs including mandated health insurance, this could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, even if minimum wage rates do not increase, we may still be required to raise wage rates in order to compete for an adequate supply of labor for our restaurants. The efficiency and quality of our competitors’ advertising and promotional programs and the extent and cost of our advertising could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, or the cost of television or radio advertising increases, or our advertising and promotions are less effective than our competitors’, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The success of our Burger King restaurants also depends upon the effectiveness of the advertising campaigns and promotions by BKC. Newly developed restaurants may reduce sales at our neighboring restaurants. We intend to continue to open restaurants in our existing markets served by our Pollo Tropical and Taco Cabana restaurants. To the extent that we open a new restaurant in the vicinity of one or more of our existing restaurants, it is possible that some of the customers who previously patronized those existing restaurants may choose instead to patronize the new restaurant, which may result in decreased sales at our existing restaurants. Accordingly, to the extent we open new restaurants in our existing markets, sales at some of our existing restaurants in those markets may decline. Our business is regional and we therefore face risks related to reliance on certain markets as well as risks for other unforeseen events. As of January 1, 2012, excluding our franchised locations, all but six of our Pollo Tropical restaurants were located in Florida and all but six of our Taco Cabana restaurants were located in Texas. Also, as of January 1, 2012, approximately 65% of our Burger King restaurants were located in New York and Ohio. Therefore, the economic conditions, state and local government regulations, weather conditions or other conditions affecting Florida, Texas, New York and Ohio and the tourism industry affecting Florida and other unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts may have a material impact on the success of our restaurants in those locations. Many of our restaurants are located in regions that may be susceptible to severe weather conditions. As a result, adverse weather conditions in any of these areas could damage these restaurants, result in fewer guest visits to these restaurants and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, our Florida and Texas restaurants are susceptible to hurricanes and other severe tropical weather events and many of our Burger King restaurants, and in the past, our Taco Cabana restaurants, have been affected by severe winter weather. 31 Table of Contents Economic downturns may adversely impact consumer spending patterns. The U.S. economy has undergone, and is currently continuing to undergo, a significant slowdown and volatility due to uncertainties related to availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial services sectors, softness in the housing market, diminished market liquidity, falling consumer confidence and high unemployment rates. Our business is dependent to a significant extent on national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly those that affect our guests that frequently patronize our restaurants. In particular, where our customers’ disposable income is reduced (such as by job losses, credit constraints and higher housing, tax, energy, interest or other costs) or where the perceived wealth of customers has decreased (because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, increased tax rates or other economic disruptions), our restaurants have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, lower sales and customer traffic as customers choose lower-cost alternatives or choose alternatives to dining out. The resulting decrease in our customer traffic or average sales per transaction has had an adverse effect in the past, and could in the future have a material adverse effect, on our business. We cannot assure you that the current locations of our existing restaurants will continue to be economically viable or that additional locations will be acquired at reasonable costs. The location of our restaurants has significant influence on their success. We cannot assure you that current locations will continue to be economically viable or that additional locations can be acquired at reasonable costs. In addition, the economic environment where restaurants are located could decline in the future, which could result in reduced sales in those locations. We cannot assure you that new sites will be profitable or as profitable as existing sites. Changes in our management could negatively impact our business and financial and operating results. On July 21, 2011 we announced the hiring of Tim Taft as the new Chief Executive Officer and President of Fiesta Restaurant Group, effective August 15, 2011. Mr. Taft succeeded Alan Vituli as Chief Executive Officer of Fiesta Restaurant Group. Changes in our management, including but not limited to changes in connection with the spin-off, and including the recent hiring of Mr. Taft as Fiesta Restaurant Group’s new CEO and President, could increase uncertainty in our business, result in changes in our business, result in disruptions to our business or in other changes in management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of the services of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our senior management who have substantial experience in the restaurant industry. We believe that it could be difficult to replace our senior management with individuals having comparable experience. Consequently, the loss of the services of members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Government regulation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the development and operation of restaurants, including regulations relating to the following: • zoning; • requirements relating to labeling of caloric and other nutritional information on menu boards, advertising and food packaging; • the preparation and sale of food; 32 Table of Contents • liquor licenses which allow us to serve alcoholic beverages at our Taco Cabana restaurants and at certain Pollo Tropical restaurants; • employer/employee relationships, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements; • health care; • federal and state laws that prohibit discrimination and laws regulating design and operation of, and access to, facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990; and • federal and state regulations governing the operations of franchises, including rules promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission. In the event that legislation having a negative impact on our business is adopted, it could have a material adverse impact on us. For example, substantial increases in the minimum wage or state or Federal unemployment taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Local zoning or building codes or regulations and liquor license approvals can cause substantial delays in our ability to build and open new restaurants. Local authorities may revoke, suspend or deny renewal of our liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Any failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. We are assessing the various provisions of the comprehensive federal health care reform law enacted in 2010, including its impact on our business as it becomes effective. There are no assurances that a combination of cost management and menu price increases can offset all of the potential increased costs associated with these regulations. If one of our employees sells alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated or minor patron, we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the patron. We serve alcoholic beverages at our Taco Cabana restaurants and at select Pollo Tropical restaurant locations and are subject to the “dram-shop” statutes of the jurisdictions in which we serve alcoholic beverages. “Dram-shop” statutes generally provide that serving alcohol to an intoxicated or minor patron is a violation of the law. In most jurisdictions, if one of our employees sells alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated or minor patron we may be liable to third parties for the acts of the patron. We cannot guarantee that those patrons will not be served or that we will not be subject to liability for their acts. Our liquor liability insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover any potential liability and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or we may face increased deductibles on such insurance. A significant “dram-shop” claim or claims could have a material adverse effect on us as a result of the costs of defending against such claims; paying deductibles and increased insurance premium amounts; implementing improved training and heightened control procedures for our employees; and paying any damages or settlements on such claims. Federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials could expose us to liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous substances or other regulated materials, release of pollutants into the air, soil and water, and the remediation of contaminated sites. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in the imposition of fines or penalties, restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts of law, as well as investigatory or remedial liabilities and 33 Table of Contents claims for alleged personal injury or damages to property or natural resources. Some environmental laws impose strict, and under some circumstances joint and several, liability for costs of investigation and remediation of contaminated sites on current and prior owners or operators of the sites, as well as those entities that send regulated materials to the sites. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. Therefore, our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing property subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. The leases for our restaurant locations generally have initial terms of 20 years, and typically provide for renewal options in five year increments as well as for rent escalations. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be obligated to perform our monetary obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying all amounts due for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations. Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal and international trademark and service mark registrations, including the Pollo Tropical name and logo and Taco Cabana name and logo, and proprietary rights relating to certain of our core menu offerings. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We, therefore, devote appropriate resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized usage or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. We are not aware of any assertions that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties, but we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items in the future or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An increase in food costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability and operating margins are dependent in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Changes in the price or availability of certain food products could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to guests and could materially adversely affect our profitability and reputation. The type, variety, quality and price of produce, beef and poultry and cheese can be subject to change and to factors beyond our control, including weather, governmental regulation, availability and seasonality, each of which may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply. For example, weather patterns in recent years have resulted in lower than normal levels of rainfall in key agricultural states such as California, impacting the price of water and the corresponding prices of food commodities grown in states facing drought conditions. Our food distributors or suppliers also may be affected by higher costs to produce and transport commodities used in our restaurants, higher minimum wage and benefit costs and other expenses that they pass through to their customers, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Although we are able to contract for certain of the food commodities used in our restaurants for periods of up to one year, the pricing and availability of some of the commodities used in our operations cannot be locked in for periods of longer than one 34 Table of Contents week or at all. Currently, we have contracts of varying lengths with several of our distributors and suppliers, including our distributors and suppliers of poultry. We do not use financial instruments to hedge our risk to market fluctuations in the price of beef, seafood, produce and other food products at this time. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs (including anticipated increases in food costs in 2012) through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Security breaches of confidential guest information in connection with our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions may adversely affect our business. A significant amount of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers has been stolen. We may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our guests’ credit or debit card information. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, may have a material adverse effect on us and our restaurants. We are dependent on information technology and any material failure of that technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business. We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, and payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. These risks may be increased as a result of integration challenges following the financing transactions. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The fluctuations could cause a loss of all or part of an investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the trading price of our common stock may include, but are not limited to the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of companies generally or restaurant companies; • actual or anticipated variations in the earnings or operating results of our company or our competitors; • actual or anticipated changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • market conditions or trends in our industry and the economy as a whole; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures and our ability to complete any such transaction, including without limitation, our intention to spin-off Fiesta Restaurant Group to our stockholders; 35 Table of Contents • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • capital commitments; • changes in accounting principles; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales by our directors and officers. In addition, if the market for restaurant company stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry (including BKC) or related industries even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action securities litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. The concentrated ownership of our capital stock by insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors and Jefferies Capital Partners IV LP, Jefferies Employee Partners IV LLC and JCP Partners IV LLC (collectively referred to as the “JCP Group”) together beneficially own at March 5, 2012 approximately 34.2% of our common stock outstanding. In particular, the JCP Group, our largest stockholder, collectively beneficially own approximately 28.3% of our outstanding common stock, based on shares outstanding as of March 5, 2012. In addition, our executive officers and directors (excluding directors affiliated with the JCP Group) together beneficially own approximately 5.9%% of our common stock outstanding, based on shares outstanding as of March 5, 2012. As a result, our executive officers, directors and the JCP Group, if they act as a group, will be able to significantly influence matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and acquisitions. The directors will have the authority to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt and the declaration of dividends. The JCP Group may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately depress the market price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and the Indenture governing the Fiesta Notes and the senior credit facility limit Carrols and its subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us and consequently our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The absence of a dividend on our common stock may increase the volatility of the market price of our common stock or make it more likely that the market price of our common stock will decrease in the event of adverse economic conditions or adverse developments affecting our company. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a result, for us to pay dividends, we would need to rely on dividends or distributions to us from Carrols and indirectly from subsidiaries of Carrols. 36 Table of Contents The indenture governing the Fiesta Notes and the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities limit, and the debt instruments that we and our subsidiaries may enter into in the future may limit the ability of the subsidiaries of Carrols to pay dividends to Carrols and, in turn, Carrols’ ability to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We cannot assure you that these analysts will publish research or reports about us or that any analysts that do so will not discontinue publishing research or reports about us in the future. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price could decline rapidly. If analysts do not publish reports about us or if one or more analysts cease coverage of our stock, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as amended, or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require that special meetings of our stockholders be called only by our board of directors or certain of our officers, thus prohibiting our stockholders from calling special meetings; • deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to dilute the voting and economic rights of our common stock and to discourage a takeover attempt; • provide that approval of our board of directors or a supermajority of stockholders is necessary to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws and that approval of a supermajority of stockholders is necessary to amend, alter or change certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • divide our board into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered 3-year term, which generally increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the directors; • provide that directors only may be removed for cause by a majority of the board or by a supermajority of our stockholders; and • require that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of January 1, 2012, we had $278.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, including outstanding borrowings of $67.4 million under the Carrols LLC senior credit facility, $200.0 million of Fiesta Notes, $10.1 million of lease financing obligations and $1.1 million of capital leases. As a result, we are a highly leveraged company. 37 Table of Contents As a result of our indebtedness, a significant portion of our cash flow will be required to pay interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available under our new Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities, to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including the Fiesta Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Fiesta Notes and our other debt; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and related interest, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • increase our cost of borrowing; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes. We expect to use cash flow from operations to meet our current and future financial obligations, including funding our operations, debt service and capital expenditures. Our ability to make these payments depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we do not have enough cash flow, we may be forced to reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including our new Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured senior credit facilities and the Fiesta Notes, on or before maturity. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future indebtedness, including the agreements for our new revolving credit facility, may limit our ability to pursue any of these alternatives. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may still be able to incur more debt or make certain restricted payments, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including debt that may be secured on a first lien basis or pari passu with the Fiesta Notes. Although the new Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Fiesta Notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions. In addition, if we are able to designate some of our restricted subsidiaries under the indenture governing the Fiesta Notes as unrestricted subsidiaries, those unrestricted subsidiaries would be permitted to borrow beyond the limitations specified in the indenture and engage in other activities in which restricted subsidiaries may not engage. We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions, which may increase our indebtedness. Moreover, although our new Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Fiesta Notes contain restrictions on our ability to make restricted payments, including the declaration and payment of dividends, we are able to make such restricted payments under certain circumstances. Adding new debt to current debt levels or making restricted payments could intensify the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face. 38 Table of Contents We may not have the funds necessary to satisfy all of our obligations under the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities, the Fiesta Notes or other indebtedness in connection with certain change of control events. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, the indenture governing the Fiesta Notes requires us to make an offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest (and additional interest, if any) to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds, or the ability to raise sufficient funds, at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the Fiesta Notes. In addition, restrictions under Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities may not allow us to repurchase the Fiesta Notes upon a change of control. If we could not refinance such debt or otherwise obtain a waiver from the holders of such debt, we would be prohibited from repurchasing the Fiesta Notes, which would constitute an event of default under the indenture. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a “Change of Control” under the indenture. In addition, the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group new secured credit facilities provide that certain change of control events constitute an event of default under the new secured credit facilities. Such an event of default entitles the lenders thereunder to, among other things, cause all outstanding debt obligations under the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities to become due and payable and to proceed against the collateral securing such new secured credit facility. Any event of default or acceleration of the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group secured credit facilities will likely also cause a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. The agreements governing our debt agreements restrict our ability to engage in some business and financial transactions. Our debt agreements, including the indenture governing the Fiesta Notes and the agreements governing the Carrols LLC and Fiesta Restaurant Group new secured credit facilities, restrict our ability in certain circumstances to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends and make other distributions on, redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • make investments or other restricted payments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • sell all, or substantially all, of our assets; • create liens on assets to secure debt; or • effect a consolidation or merger. These covenants limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing our business or competing effectively. In addition, our new revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. At January 1, 2012 we were in compliance with covenants our secured credit facilities, however our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these tests. A breach of any of these covenants or other provisions in our debt agreements could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained 39 Table of Contents in the agreements governing such other debt. In the event that some or all of our debt is accelerated and becomes immediately due and payable, we may not have the funds to repay, or the ability to refinance, such debt. In addition, in the event that the notes become immediately due and payable, the holders of the notes would not be entitled to receive any payment in respect of the notes until all of our senior debt has been paid in full. Risks Related to the Proposed Spin-off There can be no assurance that the spin-off will be completed in April 2012 or at all and the spin-off could result in issues we do not yet anticipate. We anticipate that the spin-off will be completed in April 2012, although there can be no assurance that the spin-off will be completed within such time period or at all. Our ability to complete the proposed spin-off is conditioned on, among other things, final approval of our Board of Directors, receipt of a favorable private letter tax ruling from the IRS, which has been received, the effectiveness of Fiesta Restaurant Group’s Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC with respect to the registration of its common stock under the Exchange Act and final listing approval of the Fiesta Restaurant Group common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. Further, if we complete the proposed spin-off, we may not achieve the intended results and may result in additional operating expenses for both companies in the aggregate. We currently share members of senior management and directors with Fiesta Restaurant Group which means those members of senior management have not devoted their full time and attention to our affairs and the overlap may give rise to conflicts. Until the completion of the spin-off, certain of our executive officers and certain other members of our senior management will continue to serve as executive officers and members of senior management of Fiesta Restaurant Group. As a result, prior to the completion of the spin-off, certain of our executive officers and certain other members of our senior management have not devoted and will not devote their full time and attention to our affairs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, until the completion of the spin-off, all of the members of our Board of Directors will also continue to serve as directors of Fiesta Restaurant Group. Additionally, Nicolas Daraviras, currently a member of the board of directors of Fiesta Restaurant Group, Carrols Restaurant Group and Carrols, will remain as a director of Fiesta Restaurant Group, Carrols Restaurant Group and Carrols following the spin-off. Also, Paul R. Flanders, the Chief Financial Officer of Carrols Restaurant Group, will serve as interim Chief Financial Officer of Fiesta Restaurant Group effective as of the completion of the spin-off until such time as Fiesta Restaurant Group hires a permanent Chief Financial Officer. These directors and certain members of management may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting us or Fiesta Restaurant Group. For example, there could be the potential for a conflict of interest when we or Fiesta Restaurant Group look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. Also, conflicts may arise if there are issues or disputes under the commercial arrangements that will exist between Fiesta Restaurant Group and us. Our Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Fiesta Restaurant Group will review and address any potential conflict of interests that may arise between Fiesta Restaurant Group and us. Although no specific measures to resolve such conflicts of interest have been formulated, our Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of Fiesta Restaurant Group have a fiduciary obligation to deal fairly and in good faith. Our Board of Directors intends to exercise reasonable judgment and take such steps as they deem necessary under all of the circumstances in resolving any specific conflict of interest which may occur and will determine what, if any, specific measures, such as retention of an independent advisor, independent counsel or special committee, may be necessary or appropriate. Any such conflict could have a material adverse effect on our business. 40 Table of Contents We, Fiesta Restaurant Group and our stockholders may be subject to substantial liabilities if the spin-off is treated as a taxable transaction. We have received, and the completion of the spin-off is subject to and conditioned upon our receipt of, a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off will qualify as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code and as part of a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and the transfer to Fiesta Restaurant Group of assets and the assumption by Fiesta Restaurant Group of liabilities in connection with the spin-off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes to us or Carrols, except to the extent the amount of financing proceeds distributed from Fiesta Restaurant Group to Carrols exceeds the adjusted tax basis of the assets contributed by Carrols to Fiesta Restaurant Group. It is also expected that our tax advisor will provide us with a tax opinion covering certain matters not covered in the private letter ruling. Said tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts. Although a private letter ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of the ruling will be subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in connection with obtaining such private letter ruling, including with respect to post-spin-off operations and conduct of the parties. Also, as part of the IRS’s general policy with respect to rulings on spin-off transactions under Section 355 of the Code, the private letter ruling obtained by us is based upon representations by us that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by the IRS that these conditions have been satisfied. Failure to satisfy such necessary conditions, or any inaccuracy in any representations made by us in connection with the ruling, could invalidate the ruling. If the spin-off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, Carrols would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock of Fiesta Restaurant Group in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of Fiesta Restaurant Group common stock distributed to them. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to our stockholders and to Carrols would be substantial. Under applicable law and regulations, we and Fiesta Restaurant Group would be jointly and severally liable for taxes incurred by them in connection with the distribution. It is anticipated that a tax matters agreement to be entered into by Fiesta Restaurant Group with us and Carrols in connection with the spin-off will (1) govern the allocation of the tax assets and liabilities between Fiesta Restaurant Group, us and Carrols, (2) provide for certain restrictions and indemnities in connection with the tax treatment of the spin-off and (3) address certain other tax related matters including, without limitation, those relating to (a) the obligations of us and Carrols and Fiesta Restaurant Group with respect to the preparation of filing of tax returns for all periods, and (b) the control of any income tax audits and any indemnities with respect thereto. It is further anticipated that in the tax matters agreement, we will agree to indemnify Fiesta Restaurant Group for losses and taxes imposed on Fiesta Restaurant Group and its affiliates resulting from our breach of our representations or covenants or our undertaking not to take certain post-spin-off actions, including with respect to our stock or assets, that would be inconsistent with or cause to be untrue any material information, covenant, or representation made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by us from the IRS. We will agree to certain restrictions in order to comply with U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin-off and may not be able to engage in acquisitions with related parties and other strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. Current U.S. federal tax law that applies to spin-offs generally creates a presumption that the spin-off would be taxable to us but not to our stockholders if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a plan or series of related transactions that would result in the acquisition of a 50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the spin-off, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan related to the spin-off. United States 41 Table of Contents Treasury Regulations generally provide that whether an acquisition of our stock and a spin-off are part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including specific factors listed in the regulations. In addition, the regulations provide certain “safe harbors” for acquisitions of our stock that are not considered to be part of a plan related to the spin-off. There are other restrictions imposed on us under current U.S. federal tax law for spin-offs and with which we will need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment of the distribution, such as limitations on sales or redemptions of our common stock for cash or other property following the distribution. In the tax matters agreement with Fiesta Restaurant Group which we will enter into in connection with the spin-off, we will agree that, among other things, we will not take any actions that would result in any tax being imposed on us as a result of the spin-off. Further, for the two-year period following the spin-off, we will agree not to: (1) enter into, approve, agree to enter into, or substantially negotiate any transaction or series of transactions (in whatever form) resulting in a greater than 45% change in ownership of the vote or value of our equity or the equity of the surviving or successor entity, (2) merge, consolidate, liquidate, or partially liquidate ourselves or any of the entities conducting the business relied upon in the IRS ruling as the “active business” of Carrols Restaurant Group, (3) permit the termination, sale, or transfer of, or a material change in, the business relied upon in the IRS ruling as the “active business” of Carrols Restaurant Group or the sale, issuance, or other disposition of the equity of the entities conducting such business, (4) sell or otherwise dispose of assets in a way that would adversely affect tax-free status, (5) repurchase any of our stock except in circumstances permitted by IRS guidelines, or (6) take any actions inconsistent with the representations or covenants in the IRS ruling request, inconsistent with the ruling or tax opinion, or that would be reasonably likely to otherwise jeopardize tax-free status. We will, however, be permitted to take certain actions otherwise prohibited by the tax matters agreement if we provide Fiesta Restaurant Group with an opinion of tax counsel or private letter ruling from the IRS, reasonably acceptable to Fiesta Restaurant Group, to the effect that these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin-off. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise money by selling assets, or enter into business combination transactions. Completing the spin-off might present significant challenges. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of completing the spin-off of Fiesta Restaurant Group. These difficulties include: • the challenge of effecting the separation while carrying on the ongoing operations of each business; • the potential difficulty in retaining key officers and personnel of each company; and • separating corporate infrastructure, including but not limited to systems, insurance, accounting, legal, finance, tax and human resources, for each of the two companies. The spin-off might not be completed as successfully and cost-effectively as we anticipate. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As noted above, our ability to remain in compliance with agreements and covenants in our debt instruments depends upon our results of operations and may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial and industry conditions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with those agreements and covenants. 42 Table of Contents The terms of the spin-off of Fiesta Restaurant Group may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. The terms of the spin-off of Fiesta Restaurant Group could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. An acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code. Under the tax matters agreement that we will enter into with Fiesta Restaurant Group in connection with the spin-off, we would be required to indemnify Fiesta Restaurant Group for the resulting tax in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that you may consider favorable. Our smaller size may affect the trading market for our shares and we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. We will be a substantially smaller company than we were prior to the spin-off and we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade after the spin-off. Our trading volume, once it has stabilized following the spin-off, may be lower than our historical trading volume. Also, it is possible that there will be less market and institutional interest in our shares, and that we will not attract substantial coverage in the analyst community. As a result, the trading market for our shares may be less liquid, making it more difficult for investors to dispose of their shares at favorable prices. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the combined trading prices of our common stock and Fiesta Restaurant Group common stock after the spin-off will be greater than the trading price for our common stock prior to the spin-off, and the combined trading prices may be lower. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 