Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated herein. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. General If adverse changes in the levels of real estate activity occur, our revenues may decline. Title insurance revenue is closely related to the level of real estate activity which includes sales, mortgage financing and mortgage refinancing. Our FIS segment would also be negatively affected if real estate activity levels decline. Levels of real estate activity are primarily affected by the average price of real estate sales, the availability of funds to finance purchases and mortgage interest rates. While both the volume and the average price of residential real estate transactions have recently experienced record highs, we do not expect these trends to continue. Further, interest rates have risen from record low levels in 2003, resulting in reductions in the level of mortgage refinancings and total mortgage originations in 2004 and again in 2005. We have found that residential real estate activity generally decreases in the following situations: • when mortgage interest rates are high or increasing; • when the mortgage funding supply is limited; and • when the United States economy is weak. If either the level of real estate activity or the average price of real estate sales declines, it could adversely affect our title insurance revenues. The Mortgage Bankers Association currently projects residential mortgage production in 2006 to be $2.24 trillion, which would represent a 19.2% decline relative to 2005. The MBA further projects that the 19.2% decrease will result from purchase transactions declining from $1.49 billion in 2005 to $1.43 billion in 2006 or 3.6%and refinance transactions dropping from $1.29 billion in 2005 to $0.81 billion or 37.1% in 2006. Revenues from certain of the businesses in our FIS segment are also closely related to the level of real estate transactions, such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancings. Our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. 28 Table of Contents Our rate of growth could be adversely affected if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates. As part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and, assuming we find them, to finance such acquisitions on acceptable terms. We have historically used, and in the future may continue to use, a variety of sources of financing to fund our acquisitions, including cash from operations, debt and equity. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of risks, including the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and variability in our stock price. FIS is highly leveraged and would likely need to issue equity to raise funds for a significant acquisition. These steps might require approval of FIS’s lenders, which might not be forthcoming. These factors may inhibit our ability to pursue attractive acquisition targets. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Our management has articulated an ongoing strategy to seek growth through acquisitions in lines of business that will not necessarily be limited to our traditional areas of focus or geographic areas. This expansion of our business subjects us to associated risks, such as the diversion of management’s attention and lack of experience in operating such businesses, and may affect our credit and ability to repay the notes. Our management has stated that we will seek to operate as a true holding company with the flexibility to make acquisitions in lines of business that are not directly tied to or synergistic with our core operating segments. Accordingly, we have recently acquired, and may in the future acquire, businesses in industries or geographic areas with which management is less familiar than we are with our core businesses. These activities involve risks that could adversely affect our operating results, such as diversion of management’s attention and lack of substantial experience in operating such businesses. Also, in the last few years we have expanded the range and amount of real estate information services we provide, expanded our home warranty, auto and niche personal lines insurance businesses, expanded our commercial title insurance business and acquired underwriters of other lines of insurance products. There can be no guarantee that we will not enter into transactions or make acquisitions that will cause us to incur additional debt, increase our exposure to market and other risks and cause our credit or financial strength ratings to decline. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth and successfully integrating new businesses, including the businesses of Certegy following the merger, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure of new FIS to achieve expected synergies or to successfully cross-sell its products and services could result in the benefits of the merger not being attained. We have historically achieved growth through a combination of developing new products and services and, increasing our market share for existing products and acquisitions. Part of our strategy is to pursue opportunities to diversify and expand our operations by acquiring or making investments in other companies. The success of each acquisition will depend upon: • our ability to integrate the acquired business’ operations, products and personnel; • our ability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • our ability to expand our financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures; • our ability to maintain the customers and goodwill of the acquired business; and • any unexpected costs or unforeseen liabilities associated with the acquired business. The integration of two previously separate companies is a challenging, time-consuming and costly process. In the case of the merger with Certegy, it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect FIS’s ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, any successful integration of companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will 29 Table of Contents temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day businesses. The same issues apply to the integration of any other business we acquire. Realizing the beneficial synergies expected from the merger with Certegy will depend on a number of factors, some of which include: • retention of key management, marketing, and technical personnel after the merger; • correctly identifying areas where personnel and facilities can be consolidated without adverse effects on results of operations; • customers not deferring purchasing decisions as a result of the merger; • the ability of the combined company to increase sales of its products; and • competitive conditions in the industries in which the combined company operates. The failure to achieve the anticipated synergies could result in a failure to attain the expected benefits to the business, financial condition and operating results of FIS, and ultimately to our results of operations. While we intend to take advantage of this merger to seek cross-selling opportunities, such cross-selling efforts may face potential challenges for various reasons, such as difficulties in coordinating and incentivizing employees within one combined company and maintaining optimal quality control, managing existing customers’ potential resistance to outsourcing functions to a new vendor and other matters. If the cross-selling synergies for increased revenue do not occur, the benefits of the merger may not ultimately be achieved. We are a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries for cash. We are a holding company whose primary assets are the securities of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay debt service on our notes and our other obligations and to pay dividends is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us. Our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us. If our operating subsidiaries are not able to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to meet our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. FNT’s title insurance and specialty insurance subsidiaries must comply with state laws which require them to maintain minimum amounts of working capital, surplus and reserves, and place restrictions on the amount of dividends that they can distribute to us. Compliance with these laws will limit the amounts our regulated subsidiaries can dividend to us. During 2006, FNT’s title insurers will be able to pay dividends or make distributions to FNT without prior regulatory approval of approximately $289.9 million. Our other subsidiaries include FIS and our specialty insurance operations. However, at present FIS is highly leveraged and specialty insurance is a smaller, growing operation and, as a result, it will likely be difficult under current circumstances for either of them to be a significant source of cash to us. Although the merger with Certegy resulted in the combined company having a lower degree of leverage than pre-merger FIS alone, the combined company still has substantial leverage and has its own needs for cash and accordingly may be unable to provide significant cash flow to FNF. FIS currently expects that following the merger it will continue paying quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share. However, FIS’s senior credit facilities contain covenants limiting the amount of dividends FIS can pay on its common stock to $60 million per year, plus certain other amounts, except that dividends on common stock may not be paid if any event of default under the facilities shall have occurred or be continuing or would result from such payment. Further, any dividends FIS does pay would also be paid to the stockholders of FIS other than us. We could have conflicts with our subsidiaries, and our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors is also the chairman of the board of directors of both FNT and FIS. Conflicts may arise between our majority-owned subsidiaries FNT and FIS and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. We will seek to manage any potential conflicts through our agreements with our subsidiaries and through oversight by independent members of our 30 Table of Contents board of directors. However, there can be no assurances that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts. Similar conflicts could arise between FNT and FIS. William P. Foley, II, is our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors and the chairman of the board of each of FNT and FIS. As an officer and director of multiple companies, he has obligations to us and to such other companies and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting our and their respective businesses. As an officer and director of multiple companies, he may also have conflicts of time with respect to his multiple responsibilities. If his duties to any of these companies require more time than Mr. Foley is able to allot, then his oversight of that company’s activities could be diminished. Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of stock or options of FNT or FIS. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and FNT or FIS. Some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of FNT and FIS stock and stock options because of their relationships with FNF, FNT and FIS. Such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve FNT, FIS or any of their respective subsidiaries. The markets in which our principal operating subsidiaries operate are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us, and we may face competition from new entrants with alternative products or services. The market for FIS’s services is intensely competitive. FIS’s competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Some of its competitors have substantial resources. Since many of FIS’s larger potential customers in its bank core processing and mortgage processing businesses have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, FIS often competes against its potential customers’ in-house capacities. In its card services business, our FIS segment faces direct competition from third-party payment processors and companies that market software for the electronic payments industry. We also compete against software and transaction processing systems developed and used in-house by our potential customers. Our competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. Certain of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be in a position to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or may devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services. Moreover, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly decrease our market share. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater resources than us. Accordingly, competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The title insurance industry is also highly competitive. According to Demotech, the top five title insurance companies accounted for 90.2% of net premiums collected in 2004. Over 40 independent title insurance companies accounted for the remaining 9.8% of the market. The number and size of competing companies varies in the different geographic areas in which we conduct our title insurance business. In our principal markets, competitors include other major title underwriters such as The First American Corporation, LandAmerica Financial Group, Inc., Old Republic International Corporation and Stewart Information Services Corporation, as well as numerous smaller title insurance companies and independent agency operations at the regional and local level. These smaller companies may expand into other markets in which we compete. Also, the removal of regulatory barriers might result in new competitors entering the title insurance business, and those new competitors may include companies that have greater financial resources than we do and possess other competitive advantages. Competition among the major title insurance companies, expansion 31 Table of Contents by smaller regional companies and any new entrants with alternative products could affect our business operations and financial condition. From time to time, we adjust the title insurance rates we charge in a particular state as a result of competitive conditions in that state. For example, in response to recent rate reductions by certain of our title insurance competitors, we recently adjusted our rate structure in California for refinancings. This change could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, although its ultimate impact will depend, among other things, on the volume and mix of our future refinancing business in that state. We expect the markets for our products and services to remain highly competitive. Our failure to remain competitive may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Insurance Business Our insurance subsidiaries must comply with extensive regulations. These regulations may increase our costs or impede, or impose burdensome conditions on, actions that we might seek to take to increase the revenues of those subsidiaries. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. These agencies have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to the following, among other matters: • licensing requirements; • trade and marketing practices; • accounting and financing practices; • capital and surplus requirements; • the amount of dividends and other payments made by insurance subsidiaries; • investment practices; • rate schedules; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • establishing reserves; and • regulation of reinsurance. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us with respect to acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of transactions with our affiliates. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to increase or maintain rate levels or on other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. See “Business — Regulation.” State regulation of the rates we charge for title insurance could adversely affect our results of operations. Our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive rate regulation by the applicable state agencies in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Title insurance rates are regulated differently in the various states, with some states requiring the subsidiaries to file rates before such rates become effective and some states promulgating the rates that can be charged. In almost all states in which the title subsidiaries operate, our rates must not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. The California Department of Insurance (“CDI”) has recently undertaken an examination of the levels of pricing and competition in the title insurance industry in California, with a view to determining whether prices are too high and if so, implementing rate reductions. The CDI commissioned an analysis of the title insurance and escrow industry in California, and a report was prepared by an economist at the request of the 32 Table of Contents California Insurance Commissioner. The report concluded that a reasonable degree of competition does not exist in the markets for title insurance and escrow services in California, and the CDI began holding hearings in January 2006 to address the report’s findings. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the CDI’s examination, or whether it will result in new legislation, regulation or restrictions on its title insurance operations in California. California is the largest source of revenue for the title insurance industry, including for us. In 2005, California-based premiums accounted for 45.1% of premiums earned by FNT’s direct operations and 1.8% of its agency premium revenues. In the aggregate, California accounted for approximately 21% of our total title insurance premiums for 2005. A significant part of our revenues and profitability are therefore subject to FNT’s operations in California and to the prevailing regulatory conditions in California. Adverse regulatory developments in California, which could include reductions in the maximum rates permitted to be charged, inadequate rate increases or more fundamental changes in the design or implementation of the California title insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Insurance regulators in New York, Colorado, Florida, Nevada and Texas have also announced similar inquiries (or other reviews of title insurance rates) and other states could follow. State regulators may use their rate-regulation oversight authority to take steps to cause us to reduce our rates, or block our attempts to increase our rates. Such actions by regulators could adversely affect our operating results. Further, U.S. Representative Oxley, the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, recently asked the Government Accountability Office (the GAO) to investigate the title insurance industry. Representative Oxley stated that the Committee is concerned about payments that certain title insurers have made to developers, lenders and real estate agents for referrals of title insurance business. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” Representative Oxley asked the GAO to examine, among other things, the foregoing relationships and the levels of pricing and competition in the title insurance industry. The Company is unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry or whether it will adversely affect the Company’s business or results of operations. Regulatory investigations of the insurance industry may lead to fines, settlements, new regulation or legal uncertainty, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We get inquiries and requests for information from state insurance departments, attorneys general and other regulatory agencies from time to time about various matters relating to our business. Sometimes these take the form of civil investigative subpoenas. We attempt to cooperate with all such inquiries. From time to time, we are assessed fines for violations of regulations or other matters or enter into settlements with such authorities which require us to pay money or take other actions. These fines may be significant and actions we are required to take may adversely affect our business. For a discussion of certain pending items, see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” If the rating agencies further downgrade our title insurance subsidiaries our results of operations and competitive position in the title insurance industry may suffer. Ratings have always been an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our title insurance subsidiaries are rated by S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, A.M. Best, Demotech and LACE Ratings reflect the opinion of a rating agency with regard to an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors. In connection with the announcement of our distribution of FNT common stock to FNF stockholders, S&P placed the A- financial strength rating of our principal title insurance subsidiaries on CreditWatch negative, Moody’s affirmed its A3 financial strength rating although the rating outlook was changed to negative and Fitch placed its financial strength rating on Rating Watch Negative. In addition, A.M. Best downgraded the financial strength ratings of our principal title insurance subsidiaries to A-. After the announcement of the merger between old FIS and Certegy, S&P revised its CreditWatch to positive from negative, Moody’s changed its rating outlook to stable from negative and Fitch 33 Table of Contents revised its rating watch to stable from negative. The ratings of our title insurance subsidiaries are likely to continue to be affected in the future by credit events that may occur with respect to our company, including our non-title insurance operations. The ratings of our title insurance subsidiaries are subject to continued periodic review by those entities and the continued retention of those ratings cannot be assured. If the ratings are reduced from their current levels by those entities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to FIS FIS’s substantial leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect its financial and operational flexibility. As of December 31, 2005, FIS had total debt of approximately $2.6 billion, and together with Certegy had total debt of approximately $3.1 billion immediately following the closing of the merger on February 1, 2006. This high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • the debt level makes FIS more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in its business, may cause it to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, and will limit its ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; • FIS will need to use a large portion of the money it earns to pay principal and interest on its senior credit facilities, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions, and other business activities, repay other indebtedness, and pay shareholder dividends; • some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes FIS to the risk of increased interest rates; and • FIS has a higher level of debt than certain of its competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. In addition, the terms of FIS’s senior credit facilities may restrict it from taking actions, such as making acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements that it might believe to be advantageous to it. Consolidation in the banking and financial services industries could reduce our financial institution software and services and lender outsourcing solutions related revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and could make us overly dependent on a limited number of customers. There has been and continues to be substantial merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industries. Mergers or consolidations of banks and financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the volume of banking and other activities of the consolidated entities. If our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. In addition, it is possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If FIS fails to adapt its services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if FIS’s ongoing efforts to upgrade its technology are not successful, it could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for two of its most important applications. The markets for FIS’s services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services, and evolving industry standards. The future success of FIS will be significantly affected by its ability to enhance its current services and develop and introduce new services that address the 34 Table of Contents increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers and their clients. There can be no assurance that FIS will be successful in developing, marketing, and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that FIS will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that FIS’s new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. FIS is currently engaged in significant efforts to upgrade two of its most important applications: its core bank processing software and its mortgage processing software. These applications were acquired upon FIS’s acquisition of Alltel Information Services, Inc. in 2003. FIS spent the period immediately following the acquisition discussing with its key customers the changes that they would like to see made in those products. In 2004, FIS began the development work to implement changes required to keep pace with the marketplace and the requirements of its customers. In addition to amounts already spent, FIS expects to spend an incremental $40.0 million on this development of its mortgage servicing platform. With respect to the core banking software, during 2006 FIS expects to spend approximately $55.0 million on enhancement and integration projects. If FIS is unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of these and other upgrade efforts, it would likely have a material adverse effect on FIS’s ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. Security breaches, computer viruses, software defects and system failures could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, compromising our databases and damaging our reputation. Certain of our transaction processing and lender processing businesses are exposed to a variety of risks that affect software and information systems businesses. As part of our transaction processing and lender processing businesses, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. FIS collects personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver’s license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and payment history records. Unauthorized access to FIS’s databases could result in the theft or publication of personal confidential information and the deletion or modification of personal records or otherwise cause interruptions in its operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. Further, computer viruses could infiltrate our systems. Finally, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. Any of the foregoing, were it to occur, could: • deter customers from using our products and services; • harm our business and reputation; • expose us to liability; or • increase our operating expenses to correct the problems. Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and any potential litigation associated with such a misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 35 Table of Contents If our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. As our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; • divert management’s attention and resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future applications and services. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. As a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on us. FIS has a long sales cycle for its applications and if it fails to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The implementation of FIS’s applications often involves significant capital commitments by its customers, particularly those with smaller operational scale. Potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require FIS to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value of FIS’s software and services. FIS incurs substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. FIS may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. FIS’s sales cycle may be extended due to its customers’ budgetary constraints or for other reasons. If FIS is unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or if it experiences delays, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. FIS’s outsourcing of key development functions overseas may lead to quality control issues that affect FIS’s business operations. By outsourcing development functions overseas, FIS may experience quality control issues in its applications offered to its markets. Overseas outsourcing operations are subject to risk of quality control deficiencies due to the physical distance from FIS’s headquarters, the increased potential for instructions and guidance to be misunderstood, a lack of direct institutional control, and the time and expense it will take to provide on site training. Any one of these factors make it more difficult for FIS to maintain quality control, and the potential for quality control issues may impact FIS’s ability to maintain and or increase its customer base. 36 Table of Contents FIS may not succeed with its current and future expansion of its international operations and such failure may adversely affect its growth and results of operations. Although FIS’s international operations at present are relatively small, FIS believes there may be opportunities to expand FIS’s international operations. However, FIS is less well-known internationally than in the United States and has less experience with local business conditions. In addition, FIS will face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from its headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. There can be no assurance that FIS will be able to compete successfully against current or future international competitors or that FIS’s relative inexperience with international operations will not limit or hinder its success. As FIS expands internationally, it will be increasingly subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and policy, the adoption of laws detrimental to its operations such as legislation relating to the collection of personal data over the Internet or the adoption of laws, regulations, or treaties governing the export of encryption related software; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of other laws and regulations; • failure to adequately manage currency exchange rate fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; and • general economic conditions in international markets. FIS may not be able to overcome these barriers or avoid significant expenditures in addressing these potential risks. A significant portion of FIS’s card processing business is derived from two key strategic relationships, and a loss of either of those relationships could adversely affect its profits. FIS has long-term contractual alliances (acquired in the Certegy merger) with two associations representing independent financial institutions in the U.S., the Independent Community Bankers of America (“ICBA”) and Card Services for Credit Unions (“CSCU”). Under these alliances, which expire in 2011 and 2009, respectively, FIS is the associations’ exclusive partner for offering credit card issuer and merchant institution processing services to those associations’ members. FIS is also the exclusive partner of CSCU for offering debit card processing to its members. Approximately 21% of Certegy’s consolidated revenues in 2005 were derived from CSCU’s member institutions. An early termination of, or significant adverse change in, its relationships with either or both of these associations could harm FIS’s ability to retain a substantial portion of its card processing customers and to attract new customers, which would have an adverse effect on its business. FIS’s revenues from the sale of services to VISA and MasterCard organizations are dependent upon its continued VISA and MasterCard certification and financial institution sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of this certification or sponsorship could adversely affect its business. In order to provide its card services, FIS must be designated a certified processor by, and be a member service provider of, MasterCard and be designated as an independent sales organization of VISA. These designations are dependent upon FIS’s continuing adherence to the standards of the VISA and MasterCard associations. The member financial institutions of VISA and MasterCard, some of which are FIS’s competitors, set the standards with which FIS must comply. If FIS fails to comply with these standards, its designation as a certified processor, as a member service provider, or as an independent sales organization could be suspended or terminated. The termination of FIS’s member service provider status or its status as a 37 Table of Contents certified processor, or any changes in the VISA and MasterCard rules that prevent its registration or otherwise limit FIS’s ability to provide transaction processing and marketing services for the VISA or MasterCard organizations would result in the loss of business from VISA or MasterCard issuing customers, and lead to a reduction in FIS’s revenues. Potential customers of FIS’s software and services businesses may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and internationally. For banks and other potential customers of FIS’s financial information software and services businesses, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. Many potential customers worry about potential disadvantages such a loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. As a result, potential customers, both in the U.S. and internationally, often resist change. FIS seeks to overcome this resistance through strategies such as making investments to enhance the functionality of its software. However, there can be no assurance that its strategies for overcoming potential customers’ reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the U.S. and internationally. FIS faces liability to its merchant customers if checks that it has guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer’s bank. If a check that FIS has guaranteed as part of its check services business is dishonored by the check writer’s bank, FIS must reimburse its merchant customer for the check’s face value and pursue collection of the amount from the delinquent check writer. In some cases, FIS recognizes a liability to its merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts it estimates it will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed its estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than its estimates. A continued decline in check writing could adversely impact FIS’s profits from its check services business. FIS believes check writing has begun to decline as a total percentage of point-of-sale payments due, in part, to the growing use of debit and credit cards. This decline has resulted in a higher percentage of bad checks at the point of sale because higher credit quality customers are more likely to pay with credit and debit cards. Accordingly, the demand for FIS’s check services by retailers and other vendors has increased at the same time as check writing percentages have declined. To date, this increased demand has offset the adverse effect of the decline in the percentage of payments by check. However, it is not likely that continued and prolonged declines in check writing can be offset by increased demands for services. Consequently, a prolonged continuation of the decline in check writing could lead to a negative impact on the profitability of FIS’s check services business. FIS’s customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which its customers engage and therefore reduces its revenues. FIS’s customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which its products and services must comply. For example, its card processing services are affected by VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on its customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents Demand for FIS’s transaction processing services is sensitive to the level of consumer transactions generated by its customers, and accordingly, its revenues could be impacted negatively by a general economic slowdown or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. A significant portion of FIS’s revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in credit and debit card use, could reduce the volume of transactions that FIS processes, and have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. For FIS to continue to grow its transaction processing business profitably, it must expand its share of the credit and debit card transaction processing market and enter new markets, and the failure to do this could adversely affect its business. FIS’s domestic card issuer business is concentrated in the independent community bank and credit union segments of the market, and it has achieved a significant degree of penetration of these market segments. While FIS intends to continue its vigorous pursuit of expansion within these segments, its future growth and profitability will significantly depend upon its ability to penetrate other markets, including emerging markets for electronic transaction processing, such as international transaction processing and Internet payment systems. As part of its strategy to achieve this expansion, FIS will continue to seek acquisition opportunities, investments, and alliance relationships that will facilitate its expansion; however, FIS may not be able to complete suitable acquisitions, investments, or alliances, and if it does, they may not provide FIS with the benefits it anticipated. Also, FIS may not have adequate financial and technological resources to develop products and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of new markets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 39 Table of Contents 