Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information referenced in this report, we are subject to a number of specific risks, which are outlined below. If any of these events occur, our business, financial condition, profitability and the market price of our Class A Common Stock could be materially affected. Changes in environmental laws and regulations could reduce demand for our services. Most of our business is driven by laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Any relaxation or repeal of these laws, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding or enforcement of these laws, would have an adverse impact on our revenues. Also, reduced spending by governments may increase competition within our industry which may directly affect future revenue and profits. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations, as well as government agency audits. Any violation of these laws could result in economic harm to our operations. We must comply with federal, state, and foreign laws relating to the procurement and administration of government contracts. Such laws include the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA), the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), and the Service Contract Act (SCA). These laws impact how we do business with government clients and can increase the cost of doing business. Government agencies such as EPA and the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), as well as numerous state agencies routinely audit government contractors and their performance under specific contracts to determine if a contractor’s cost structure is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. They may question the incurrence of certain costs based on the FAR and CAS and disallow those costs on their contracts. These audits may occur several years after payment for services has been received. Historically, we have been able to successfully defend against the disallowance of any significant costs. However, there is no assurance that future audits will not result in the material disallowances for costs incurred in the future. Such material disallowances could negatively affect revenue, profits and cash flow. We depend on municipal, state and federal government work for a significant portion of our revenues. Inability to win or renew government contracts during procurement cycles could significantly reduce our revenue and profits. Revenues from all municipal, state and federal government contracts represented 24%, 29% and 27% of total revenues for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Inability to win or renew government contracts could adversely affect our operations and significantly reduce our revenue and profits. Government contracts are typically awarded through a highly regulated procurement process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increased competition and downward pricing pressure. If we cannot reduce or control costs associated with these contracts, we may not be able to bid competitively, or unexpected losses on these contracts may occur. Current economic uncertainty could affect our public and private sector work. Poor global and domestic economic conditions could impact the availability of funding for certain private environmental projects. In addition, governmental budget cuts or delays in governmental spending could defer or halt work on public environmental programs. These economic uncertainties could adversely affect our operations and significantly reduce our profits. International operations are subject to a number of risks. Revenues from international operations represented 36%, 32%, and 37% of total revenues for fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including: 12 Table of Contents · greater counterparty risk, leading to longer collection cycles and potentially uncollectible accounts; · currency fluctuations; · logistical and communication challenges; · exposure to liability and sanctions under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; · exposure to liability and sanctions under laws and regulations established by foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business; · lack of developed legal systems to enforce our contractual rights; · general economic and political conditions in foreign markets; · civil disturbance, unrest or violence; and · difficulties in staffing international operations with appropriately credentialed and trained personnel. Failure to manage these risks effectively may result in harm to our overall operations and significantly reduce our future revenues, earnings and available liquidity. We must be able to accurately estimate and control contract costs to prevent losses on contracts. We have three basic types of contracts with our clients: time and materials, fixed price and cost-plus. The percentage of our revenues associated with these contract types are summarized in the following table. Twelve Months Ended July 31, 2014 2013 2012 Time and materials 54 % 48 % 49 % Fixed price 39 43 44 Cost-plus 7 9 7 Total revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % We must control direct contract costs in order to maintain positive profit margins. Under cost-plus contracts, which may be subject to various types of ceilings, we are reimbursed for allowable costs plus a negotiated profit. If costs exceed ceilings or are otherwise deemed unallowable under provisions of the contract or regulations, we may not be reimbursed for all of our costs. Under fixed price contracts, we are paid a fixed price regardless of the actual costs incurred. Consequently, a profit is realized on fixed price contracts only if we are able to control costs and avoid overruns. Under time and material contracts, we are paid for our direct labor hours at fixed rates plus reimbursement of allocable other direct costs. Profitability is dependent on a consistently high utilization of staff and our ability to control our overhead costs. The use of annual percentage of completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A portion of our revenues and profit margins are measured and recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting which is discussed further in Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of this method results in the recognition of revenues and profit margins ratably over the life of a contract. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in subsequent periods and their effects could be material. Although we have historically been able to make reasonably accurate estimates of work progress, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates in a material amount, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Subcontractor performance and pricing could expose us to loss of reputation and additional financial or performance obligations that could result in reduced profits or losses. We often hire subcontractors for our projects. The success of these projects depends, in varying degrees, on the satisfactory performance of our subcontractors and our ability to successfully manage subcontractor costs and pass them through to our customers. If our subcontractors do not meet their obligations or we are unable to manage or pass through costs, we may be unable to profitably perform and deliver our contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments and expend additional resources to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services. In addition, the inability of our subcontractors to adequately perform or our inability to manage subcontractor costs on certain projects could hurt our competitive reputation and ability to obtain future projects. 13 Table of Contents Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare financial statements, which may reduce or eliminate profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by management include: · the application of the percentage of completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts · provisions for uncollectible receivables and contract adjustments · provisions for income taxes and related valuation reserves · accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves · accruals for uncertain tax positions · evaluation of the impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets Failure to attract and retain key employees could impair our ability to provide quality service to clients. We provide professional and technical services that depend on our ability to attract, retain and train our professional employees to conduct our business and perform our obligations to ensure success. It may be difficult to attract and retain qualified expertise within timeframes demanded by clients. Senior managements’ experience is essential to the success of any company and our ability to retain such talent is crucial to our profitability. Further, the loss of key management personnel could adversely affect our ability to develop and pursue our business strategies. Failure to complete a project timely or failure to meet a required performance standard on a project could cause us to incur a loss which may affect overall profitability. Completion dates and performance standards may be important requirements to a client on a given project. If we are unable to complete a project within specified deadlines or fail to meet performance criteria set forth by a client, we may incur additional costs or the client may hold us responsible for costs they incur to rectify the problem. The uncertainty involved in the timing of certain projects could also negatively affect our staff utilization, causing a drop in efficiency and reduced profits. Failure to manage our information technology environment effectively could be detrimental to our operations. We rely on information technology for all aspects of our operations, including but not limited to our project proposal, contract management, project management, labor management, client billing, vendor payment, tax management, liquidity management and financial reporting processes. During fiscal year 2014, we substantially completed the conversion of our operating software for our U.S. operations. During fiscal year 2015, we intend to complete operating software conversions for certain of our South American subsidiaries. Failure to adequately manage the worldwide implementation and utilization of system software could negatively impact our ability to manage our operations and our ability to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis. Failure to comply with tax accounting and reporting requirements in all of our markets could have a detrimental impact on our business decision-making and on our financial results. We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions within the United States and in foreign countries. Accurate tax accounting and reporting for all jurisdictions is essential for us to continue to operate in our markets. In addition, understanding the tax impacts of various financial transactions is also essential for us to make sound and informed business decisions. Therefore, failure to identify, understand, interpret and comply with tax requirements could result in uninformed business decisions and financial reporting errors. 14 Table of Contents Our services could expose us to significant liability not covered by insurance. The services we provide expose us to significant risks of professional and other liabilities. Our contracts generally require us to maintain certain insurance coverages and to indemnify our clients for claims, damages or losses for personal injury or property damage relating to performance of our duties unless such injury or damage is the result of the client's negligence or willful acts. Currently, we are able to obtain insurance coverage to meet the requirements of our contracts, subject to certain pollution exclusions. Additionally, we have an errors and omissions insurance policy that covers our environmental consulting services, including legal liability for pollution conditions resulting therefrom. Where possible, we require that our clients cross-indemnify us for asserted claims. There can be no assurance, however, that any such cross-indemnification agreements, together with our general liability insurance and errors and omissions coverage, will be sufficient to protect us against any asserted claim. We are unable to predict the total amount of all potential liabilities that could arise under contracts with our clients. While we believe that we hold an appropriate level of coverage, we acknowledge that insurance may be inadequate or unavailable in the future to protect us for such liabilities and risks. Management's voting rights could block or discourage a change in control. Our current senior officers owned more than 40% of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock as of July 31, 2014, which has one vote per share while the Class A Common Stock has one-tenth of a vote per share. Therefore, current management could block a change in control, which could adversely affect the value of the Class A Common Stock. We are subject to heightened risk of natural disasters in certain of our markets. Catastrophic natural disasters in these areas could have a detrimental impact on our operations. We have offices and projects in coastal regions of the United States and foreign countries where there is heightened risk of natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes. In addition, we have offices and projects in inland areas of the United States where there is heightened risk of flooding and tornados. If they occur, catastrophic natural disasters could have a significant detrimental impact on our operations that cannot be anticipated or planned for. Therefore, if they occur, catastrophic natural disasters could result in reduced revenues, higher expenses, loss of Company assets and loss of key staff and other critical resources for extended periods of time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None to report. 