Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information referenced in this report, the Company is subject to a number of specific risks outlined below. If any of these events occur, the Company's business, financial condition, profitability and the market price of its Class A Common Stock could be materially affected. - 10 - Table of Contents Changes in environmental laws and regulations could reduce demand for the Company’s services. Most of the Company’s business is driven by laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. Any relaxation or repeal of these laws, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding or enforcement of these laws, would have an adverse impact on the Company’s revenues. Also, reduced spending by governments may increase competition within our industry which may directly affect future revenue and profits. As a government contractor, the Company is subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations, as well as government agency audits. Any violation of these laws could result in economic harm to the Company’s operations. The Company must comply with federal, state, and foreign laws relating to the procurement and administration of government contracts. Such laws include the FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act (TINA), the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), and the Service Contract Act (SCA). These laws impact how the Company does business with government clients and can increase the cost of doing business. Government agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency Office of Inspector General, as well as numerous state agencies routinely audit government contractors and their performance under specific contracts to determine if a contractor’s cost structure is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. They may question the incurrence of certain costs based on the FAR and CAS and disallow those costs on their contracts. These audits may occur several years after payment for services has been received. Historically, the Company has been able to successfully defend against the disallowance of any significant costs. However, there is no assurance that future audits will not result in the material disallowances for costs incurred in the future. Such material disallowances could negatively affect revenue, profits and cash flow. The Company depends on federal, state and foreign government work for a significant portion of its revenues. The Company’s inability to win or renew government contracts during procurement cycles could significantly reduce Company profits. Revenues from all government contracts (federal, state and municipal) represented approximately 50% of total revenues for fiscal years 2005 through 2007. Consequently, an inability to win or renew government contracts would adversely affect operations and significantly reduce profits. Government contracts are typically awarded through a highly regulated procurement process. In addition, some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increased competition and downward pricing pressure. This may lead to increased pressure to control costs. If the Company cannot reduce or control costs on these contracts, losses may occur. The Company must be able to accurately estimate and control contract costs to prevent losses on contracts. The Company must control direct contract costs in order to maintain positive profit margins. There are three basic types of contracts with the Company’s clients: cost plus, fixed price, and time and materials. Under cost plus contracts, which may be subject to various types of ceilings, the Company is reimbursed for allowable costs plus a negotiated profit. If costs exceed ceilings or are otherwise deemed unallowable under provisions of the contract or regulations, the Company will not be reimbursed for all of its costs. Under fixed price contracts, the Company is paid a fixed price regardless of the actual costs incurred. Consequently, a profit is realized on fixed price contracts only if the Company is able to control costs and avoid overruns. Under time and material contracts, the Company is paid for its direct labor hours at fixed rates plus reimbursement of allocable other direct costs. Profitability on contracts is dependant on a consistently high utilization of staff and the Company’s ability to control its overhead costs. A failure to attract and retain key employees could impair the Company’s ability to provide quality service to clients. The Company provides professional and technical services and is dependant on its ability to attract, retain and train its professional employees to conduct its business and perform its obligations to insure success. It may be difficult to attract and retain qualified expertise within timeframes demanded by clients. Senior managements’ experience is essential to the success of any company and our ability to retain such talent is crucial to the profitability of the Company. Further, the loss of key management personnel could adversely affect the Company's ability to develop and pursue its business strategies. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare financial statements, which may reduce or eliminate profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by management include: - the application of the percentage of completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts - provisions for uncollectible receivables and contract reserves - provisions for income taxes and related valuation reserves - accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves - 11 - Table of Contents The use of percentage of completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenues and profits. A portion of the Company’s revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting which is discussed further in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of this method results in the recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although the Company has historically been able to make reasonably accurate estimates of work progress, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates in a material amount, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. International operations are subject to a number of risks. The Company has operations in more than 30 countries around the world and has derived approximately 19%, 16% and 26% of revenue from international operations for the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including: - greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; - currency fluctuations; - logistical and communication challenges; - exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; - lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; - general economic and political conditions in foreign markets; - civil disturbance, unrest or violence; - general difficulties in staffing international operations with highly professional personnel. These and other risks associated with international operations could harm our overall operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. Failure to complete a project timely or failure to meet a required performance standard on a project could cause the Company to incur a loss which may affect overall profitability. Completion dates and performance standards may be important requirements to a client on a given project. If the Company is unable to complete a project within specified deadlines or fails to meet performance criteria set forth by a client, additional costs may be incurred by the Company or the client may hold the Company responsible for costs they incur to rectify the problem. The uncertainty involved in the timing of certain projects could also negatively affect the Company’s staff utilization, causing a drop in efficiency and reduced profits. The Company's services could expose it to significant liability not covered by insurance. The services provided by the Company expose it to significant risks of professional and other liabilities. In addition, the Company sometimes assumes liability by contract under indemnification provisions. We are unable to predict the total amount of such potential liabilities. The Company has obtained insurance to cover potential risks and liabilities. However, insurance may be inadequate or unavailable in the future to protect the Company for such liabilities and risks. Management's voting rights could block or discourage a change in control. The current senior officers of the Company own in excess of 70% of the Class B Common Stock which has one vote per share while the Class A Common Stock has one-tenth of a vote per share. Therefore, current management could block a change in control. This ability could adversely affect the value of the Class A Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None to report. - 12 - Table of Contents Item 