ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. We may need additional funding to support our operations beyond 2008; sufficient funding is subject to conditions and may not be available to us, and the unavailability of funding could adversely affect our business. We require cash for operations, debt service and capital expenditures. We had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $2.4 million at December 31, 2007. If we are unable to enter into anticipated licensing agreements with our current partners or enter into new licensing, development and supply agreements, we may need to do one or more of the following: • reduce our current expenditure run-rate; • delay capital and maintenance expenditures; • restructure current debt financing; • secure additional short-term debt financing; • secure additional long-term debt financing; • secure additional equity financing; or • secure a strategic partner. There is no guarantee that such resources will be available to us on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that such resources will be received in a timely manner, if at all, or that we will be able to reduce our expenditure run-rate without materially and adversely affecting our business. Inability to secure additional resources may result in our defaulting on our debt, resulting in our lender foreclosing on our assets, or may cause us to cease operations, seek bankruptcy protection, turn our assets over to our lender or liquidate. 12 Table of Contents We have previously been out of compliance with the covenants in our loan agreements and, if we default under our loan agreements in the future, our lender could foreclose on our assets, which would adversely affect our business. In November 2007, we entered into a Forbearance Agreement with our lender. Under this agreement, our lender agreed not to declare an event of default with respect to certain alleged breaches under our loan agreement through June 1, 2008 and we, in turn, prepaid a portion of a loan and repriced warrants and convertible debt held by the lender. Our obligations to our lender are secured by a pledge of all of our assets. If we are unable to comply with the covenants addressed by the Forbearance Agreement at the end of the forbearance period, or if we otherwise breach our loan agreements, we could be required to negotiate a new forbearance agreement with our lender. If we cannot agree to a new forbearance agreement, or if our lender is unwilling to negotiate a new forbearance agreement, our lender could foreclose on our assets, which would materially and adversely affect our business. We have a history of losses and may never be profitable. Since our formation in 1985, we have incurred significant annual operating losses and negative cash flow. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $117.8 million and net working capital of $0.4 million. Due to our limited amount of additional committed capital, recurring losses, negative cash flows and accumulated deficit, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm dated March 28, 2008 expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may never be profitable, which could have a negative effect on our stock price, our business and our ability to continue operations. Our revenues are derived from licensing and technology fees and from product sales. We sell our products to strategic partners, who market our products under their brand name and to end-users such as public health clinics for vaccinations and nursing organizations for flu immunizations. We have not attained profitability at these sales levels. We may never be able to generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. In the future, we are likely to require substantial additional financing. Such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Any future equity financing could result in significant dilution to shareholders. If our products are not accepted by the market, our business could fail. Our success will depend on market acceptance of our needle-free injection drug delivery systems and on market acceptance of other products under development. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business could fail. Currently, the dominant technology used for intramuscular and subcutaneous injections is the hollow-needle syringe, which has a cost per injection that is significantly lower than that of our products. Our products may be unable to compete successfully with needle-syringes. We may be unable to enter into additional strategic corporate licensing and distribution agreements or maintain existing agreements, which could cause our business to suffer. A key component of our sales and marketing strategy is to enter into licensing and supply arrangements with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for whose products our technology provides either increased medical effectiveness or a higher degree of market acceptance. If we cannot enter into these agreements on terms favorable to us or at all, our business may suffer. In prior years, several agreements, including those with Hoffman-La Roche Pharmaceuticals, Merck & Co. and Amgen, have been canceled by our partners prior to completion. These agreements were canceled for various reasons, including, but not limited to, costs related to obtaining regulatory approval, unsuccessful pre-clinical vaccine studies, changes in vaccine development and changes in business development strategies. These agreements resulted in significant short-term revenue. However, none of these agreements developed into the long-term revenue stream anticipated by our strategic partnering strategy. No revenue resulted from any of the canceled agreements in 2007 or 2006. In addition, in October 2007, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. and Trimeris Inc. announced that they were not going to continue with their FDA submission for Fuzeon® to be administered with the B2000. While we did not have a licensing and supply agreement with these parties, this announcement may negatively affect our B2000 sales in future periods. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to enter into future licensing or supply agreements with major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. Even if we enter into these agreements, they may not result in sustainable long-term revenues which, when combined with revenues from product sales, could be sufficient for us to operate profitably. Our drug+device strategy is new and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and, as a result, we may not be successful in implementing the strategy. We recently announced a new component of our business strategy pursuant to which we will attempt to secure rights to injectable medications to sell in combination with our products under our own brand. Successfully implementing this strategy is subject to a number of risks. We may not be successful in securing rights to medications we are interested in combining with our products. Even if successful in securing rights, these products would be subject to FDA approval, and it will be our responsibility to obtain such approval. This approval may not be obtained or may take a significant period of time to obtain. In addition, there is a risk that our device will not work for the new drug indication. We may also need to raise additional funds to finance this new strategy, and there is no assurance such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We do not have experience manufacturing or marketing to end-users drug+device combinations. In addition, these new products may not be accepted by the market. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our new strategy will be successfully implemented, and failure to successfully implement the strategy could negatively affect our business. We must retain qualified personnel in a competitive marketplace, or we may not be able to grow our business. Our success depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of our senior management. We may be unable to retain our key employees, namely our management team, or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees. Although we have implemented workforce reductions, there remains substantial competition for highly skilled employees. Our key employees are not bound by agreements that could prevent them from terminating their employment at any time. If we fail to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. We hired a new President and Chief Executive Officer, and our business could be harmed if we fail to assimilate him. On October 1, 2007, we hired Mr. Ralph Makar as our new President and Chief Executive Officer. If we fail to effectively assimilate Mr. Makar, it could be disruptive to our business and negatively impact our operating results and could result in the departure of existing employees and customers. Our restructuring activities may not result in the expected benefits, which would negatively impact our future results of operations. In March 2007 and 2006, we restructured our operations, which included reducing the size of our workforce. Further headcount reductions were made in January 2008. Despite these efforts, we cannot assure you that we will achieve all of the operating expense reductions and improvements in operating margins and cash flows currently anticipated from these activities in the periods contemplated, or at all. Our inability to realize these benefits, and our failure to appropriately structure our business to meet market conditions, could negatively impact our results of operations. As part of our recent activities, we have reduced the workforce in certain portions of our business. This reduction in staffing levels could require us to forego certain future opportunities due to resource limitations, which could negatively affect our long-term revenues. In addition, these workforce reductions could result in a lack of focus and reduced productivity by remaining employees due to changes in responsibilities or concern about future prospects, which in turn may negatively affect our future revenues. Further, we believe our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our workforce reduction activities could negatively affect our ability to attract such personnel as a result of perceived risk of future workforce reductions. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to implement further restructuring activities or reductions in our workforce based on changes in the markets and industries in which we compete or that any future restructuring or workforce reduction efforts will be successful. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to comply with Nasdaq listing requirements, which could result in our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. On November 15, 2007, Nasdaq staff notified us that we had failed to comply with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3), which requires us to have a minimum of $2.5 million in stockholders’ equity or $35.0 million market value of listed securities or $0.5 million of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. On January 22, 2008, we received a letter from the Nasdaq staff extending, until January 23, 2008, the deadline to complete the conversion of our $615,000 Convertible Notes into Series F Convertible Preferred Stock to regain compliance with the rule. This conversion occurred on January 22, 2008. Accordingly, we believe that we are in compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement of Rule 4310(c)(3). The Nasdaq will continue to monitor our ongoing compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement and, if at the time of our filing of our periodic report for the year ended December 31, 2007 or the quarter ending March 31, 2008, we are not in compliance with such requirement, we will be subject to delisting. Also, on November 19, 2007, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter stating that we had failed to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) because for 30 consecutive business days the bid price of Bioject’s common stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 bid requirement. The letter states that we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until May 19, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If, at any time prior to May 19, 2008, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, Nasdaq will notify us that we are in compliance with the minimum bid requirement. Nasdaq may, in its discretion, extend this 10 consecutive business day period, but generally not beyond 20 consecutive business days. If, by May 19, 2008, we have not regained compliance with the minimum bid price, and the Nasdaq Staff determines that we meet the Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria, other than the minimum bid price, then we will be granted an additional 180 days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. However, we do not expect to be in compliance with the other initial listing criteria. We are currently taking actions to improve our business prospects, which we believe will help increase our stock price. However, if we feel that such actions will not increase our stock price enough to meet the minimum bid price requirement by May 19, 2008, we will consider additional actions to help us regain compliance. Such actions may include seeking shareholder approval of a reverse stock split at our 2008 Annual Meeting in order to increase our stock price. There is no assurance, however, that shareholder approval will be sought or obtained or, if obtained, will be obtained in time to comply with the Nasdaq compliance deadline. The fair value of accounting for derivative liabilities may materially impact the results of our operations in future periods. We recorded derivative liabilities in connection with our convertible debt and equity financing agreements at inception in 2006. In accordance with EITF 00-19, “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Common Stock” and SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” these derivative liabilities are reported at fair value each reporting period. Changes in the fair value are recorded as a component of earnings. Changes in the value of the derivative liabilities may materially impact results of operations in future periods. We have limited manufacturing experience, and may be unable to produce our products at the unit costs necessary for the products to be competitive in the market, which could cause our financial condition to suffer. We have limited experience manufacturing our products in commercially viable quantities. We have increased our production capacity for the Biojector® 2000 system and the Vitajet® product line through automation of, and changes in, production methods, in order to achieve savings through higher volumes of production. If we are unable to achieve these savings, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The current cost per injection of the Biojector® 2000 system and Vitajet® product line is substantially higher than that of traditional needle-syringes, our principal competition. In order to reduce costs, a key element of our business strategy has been to reduce the overall manufacturing cost through automating production and packaging. There can be no assurance that we will achieve sales and manufacturing volumes necessary to realize cost savings from volume 15 Table of Contents production at levels necessary to result in significant unit manufacturing cost reductions. Failure to do so will continue to make competing with needle-syringes on the basis of cost very difficult and will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to successfully manufacture devices at a unit cost that will allow the product to be sold profitably. Failure to do so would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and must continue to comply with these regulations or our business could suffer. Our products and manufacturing operations are subject to extensive government regulation in both the U.S. and abroad. If we cannot comply with these regulations, we may be unable to distribute our products, which could cause our business to suffer or fail. In the U.S., the development, manufacture, marketing and promotion of medical devices are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FFDCA”). The FFDCA provides that new pre-market notifications under Section 510(k) of the FFDCA are required to be filed when, among other things, there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device or a change or modification to a legally marketed device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness. A device manufacturer is expected to make the initial determination as to whether the change to its device or its intended use is of a kind that would necessitate the filing of a new 510(k) notification. The FDA may not concur with our determination that our current and future products can be qualified by means of a 510(k) submission or that a new 510(k) notification is not required for such products. Future changes to manufacturing procedures could require that we file a new 510(k) notification. Also, future products, product enhancements or changes, or changes in product use may require clearance under Section 510(k), or they may require FDA pre-market approval (“PMA”) or other regulatory clearances. PMAs and regulatory clearances other than 510(k) clearance generally involve more extensive prefiling testing than a 510(k) clearance and a longer FDA review process. It is current FDA policy that pre-filled syringes are evaluated by the FDA by submitting a Request for Designation (“RFD”) to the Office of Combination Products (“OCP”). The pharmaceutical or biotechnology company with which we partner is responsible for the submission to the OCP, although we will have this responsibility with respect to drug+device combinations produced by us under our new strategy. A pre-filled syringe meets the FDA’s definition of a combination product, or a product comprised of two or more regulated components, i.e. drug/device. The OCP will assign a center with primary jurisdiction for a combination product (CDER, CDRH) to ensure the timely and effective pre-market review of the product. Depending on the circumstances, drug and combination drug/device regulation can be much more extensive and time consuming than device regulation. FDA regulatory processes are time consuming and expensive. Product applications submitted by us may not be cleared or approved by the FDA. In addition, our products must be manufactured in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices, as specified in regulations under the FFDCA. The FDA has broad discretion in enforcing the FFDCA, and noncompliance with the FFDCA could result in a variety of regulatory actions ranging from product detentions, device alerts or field corrections, to mandatory recalls, seizures, injunctive actions and civil or criminal penalties. Sales of our products, including the Iject® pre-filled syringe, are dependent on regulatory approval being obtained for the product’s use with a given drug to treat a specific condition. It is the responsibility of the strategic partner producing the drug to obtain this approval. The failure of a partner to obtain regulatory approval or to comply with government regulations after approval has been received could harm our business. In order for a strategic partner to sell our devices for delivery of its drug to treat a specific condition, the partner must first obtain government approval. This process is subject to extensive government regulation both in the U.S. and abroad. As a result, sales of our products, including the Iject® product, to any strategic partner are dependent on that partner’s ability to obtain regulatory approval. Accordingly, delay or failure of a partner to obtain that approval could cause our financial results to suffer. In addition, if a partner fails to comply with governmental regulations after initial regulatory approval has been obtained, sales to that partner may cease, which could cause our financial results to suffer. 16 Table of Contents If we cannot meet international product standards, we will be unable to distribute our products outside of the United States, which could cause our business to suffer. Distribution of our products in countries other than the U.S. may be subject to regulation in those countries. Failure to satisfy these regulations would impact our ability to sell our products in these countries and could cause our business to suffer. We have received the following certifications from Underwriters Laboratories (“UL”) that our products and quality systems meet the applicable requirements, which allows us to label our products with the CE Mark and sell them in the European Community and non-European Community countries. Certificate Dated ISO 13485:2003 and CMDCAS February 2006 Annex V of the Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices March 2007 Annex II, section 3 of the Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices March 2007 If we are unable to continue to meet the standards of ISO 9001 or CE Mark certification, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause our financial results to suffer. If the healthcare industry limits coverage or reimbursement levels, the acceptance of our products could suffer. The price of our products exceeds the price of needle-syringes and, if coverage or reimbursement levels are reduced, market acceptance of our products could be harmed. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare facilities. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increased government regulation of reimbursement rates and capital expenditures. Among other things, third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain or reduce healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and levels of reimbursement for healthcare products and procedures. Because the price of the Biojector® 2000 system exceeds the price of a needle-syringe, cost control policies of third party payers, including government agencies, may adversely affect acceptance and use of the Biojector® 2000 system. We depend on outside suppliers for manufacturing. Our current manufacturing processes for the Biojector® 2000 jet injector and disposable syringes as well as manufacturing processes to produce our modified Vitajets® consist primarily of assembling component parts supplied by outside suppliers. Some of these components are currently obtained from single sources, with some components requiring significant production lead times. In the past, we have experienced delays in the delivery of certain components. To date, such delays have not had a material adverse effect on our operations. We may experience delays in the future, and these delays could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth, our results of operations could suffer. If our products achieve market acceptance or if we are successful in entering into significant product supply agreements with major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, we expect to experience rapid growth. Such growth would require expanded customer service and support, increased personnel, expanded operational and financial systems, and implementing new and expanded control procedures. We may be unable to attract sufficient qualified personnel or successfully manage expanded operations. As we expand, we may periodically experience constraints that would adversely affect our ability to satisfy customer demand in a timely fashion. Failure to manage growth effectively could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to compete in the medical equipment field, which could cause our business to fail. The medical equipment market is highly competitive and competition is likely to intensify. If we cannot compete, our business will fail. Our products compete primarily with traditional needle-syringes, “safety syringes” and also with other alternative drug delivery systems. In addition, manufacturers of needle-syringes, as well as other companies, may develop new products that compete directly or indirectly with our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in this market. A variety of new technologies (for example, transdermal patches) are being developed as alternatives to 17 Table of Contents injection for drug delivery. While we do not believe such technologies have significantly affected the use of injection for drug delivery to date, there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories as well as substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and customer support resources. We are dependent on a single technology, and if it cannot compete or find market acceptance, our business will suffer. Our strategy has been to focus our development and marketing efforts on our needle-free injection technology. Focus on this single technology leaves us vulnerable to competing products and alternative drug delivery systems. If our technology cannot find market acceptance or cannot compete against other technologies, business will suffer. We perceive that healthcare providers’ desire to minimize the use of the traditional needle-syringe has stimulated development of a variety of alternative drug delivery systems such as “safety syringes,” jet injection systems, nasal delivery systems and transdermal diffusion “patches.” In addition, pharmaceutical companies frequently attempt to develop drugs for oral delivery instead of injection. While we believe that for the foreseeable future there will continue to be a significant need for injections, alternative drug delivery methods may be developed which are preferable to injection. We rely on patents and proprietary rights to protect our technology. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and procedures and patents to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been granted a number of patents in the U.S. and several patents in other countries covering certain technology embodied in our current jet injection system and certain manufacturing processes. Additional patent applications are pending in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. The claims contained in any patent application may not be allowed, or any patent or our patents collectively may not provide adequate protection for our products and technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to this technology to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We believe we have independently developed our technology and attempt to ensure that our products do not infringe the proprietary rights of others. If a dispute arises concerning our technology, we could become involved in litigation that might involve substantial cost. Such litigation might also divert substantial management attention away from our operations and into efforts to enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope of the proprietary rights of others. If a proceeding resulted in adverse findings, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties. We might also be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to manufacture or sell our products. Our ability to manufacture and sell our products might also be adversely affected by other unforeseen factors relating to the proceeding or its outcome. If our products fail or cause harm, we could be subject to substantial product liability, which could cause our business to suffer. Producers of medical devices may face substantial liability for damages in the event of product failure or if it is alleged the product caused harm. We currently maintain product liability insurance and, to date, have experienced one product liability claim. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not be subject to a number of such claims, that our product liability insurance would cover such claims, or that adequate insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms in the future. Our business could be adversely affected by product liability claims or by the cost of insuring against such claims. There are a large number of shares eligible for sale into the public market, which may reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur. We have a large number of shares of common stock outstanding and available for resale. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. For example, since 1996, we have registered approximately 20.9 million shares for resale on Form S-3 registration statements, including approximately 2.4 million shares issuable upon exercise of warrants. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 700,000 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our stock incentive plan and our employee share 18 Table of Contents purchase plan combined. As of December 31, 2007, options to purchase approximately 1.4 million shares of common stock were outstanding and approximately 460,000 restricted stock units were outstanding and will be eligible for sale in the public market from time to time subject to vesting. In addition, there are shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of Series F preferred stock, convertible loans and notes and warrants which have not been registered for resale at this time. Our stock price may be highly volatile, which increases the risk of securities litigation. The market for our common stock and for the securities of other small market-capitalization companies has been highly volatile in recent years. This increases the risk of securities litigation relating to such volatility. We believe that factors such as quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in financial results, new product introductions by us or our competition, public announcements, changing regulatory environments, sales of common stock by certain existing shareholders, substantial product orders and announcement of licensing or product supply agreements with major pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies could contribute to the volatility of the price of our common stock, causing it to fluctuate dramatically. General economic trends such as recessionary cycles and changing interest rates may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control or otherwise influence or control most matters submitted to our shareholders. Certain funds affiliated with Life Sciences Opportunities Fund II (Institutional), L.P. (collectively, the “LOF Funds”) and its affiliates currently own shares of Series D preferred stock, Series E preferred stock, convertible debt and warrants to purchase common stock representing in aggregate approximately 34% of our outstanding voting power (assuming conversion of the debt and exercise of the warrants). As a result, the LOF Funds and their affiliates have the potential to control matters submitted to a vote of shareholders, including a change of control transaction, which could prevent or delay such a transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 