ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is dependent on the semiconductor industry which, as a whole, is volatile and could have a negative material impact on its business. The Company sells substantially all of its photomasks to semiconductor designers, manufacturers and foundries, as well as to other high performance electronics manufacturers. The Company believes that the demand for photomasks depends primarily on design activity rather than sales volume from products using photomask technologies. Consequently, an increase in semiconductor or FPD sales does not necessarily result in a corresponding increase in photomask sales. In addition, the reduced use of customized ICs, a reduction in design complexity, other changes in the technology or methods of manufacturing or designing semiconductors or a slowdown in the introduction of new semiconductor or FPD designs could reduce demand for photomasks even if demand for semiconductors and FPDs increases. Further, advances in design and production methods for semiconductors and other high performance electronics could reduce the demand for photomasks. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been volatile, with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns. These downturns have been characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity and accelerated erosion of selling prices. The semiconductor industry began to experience a downturn in fiscal 2008, which continued through fiscal 2009, and had an adverse impact on the Company's 2009 operating results. The Company's sales of photomasks for use in fabricating high performance electronic products such as FPDs decreased in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The Company's results may suffer if the FPD photomask market does not grow or if the Company is unable to serve this market successfully. As is the case with semiconductor photomask demand, the Company believes that demand for photomasks for FPDs depends primarily on design activity and, to a lesser extent upon an increase in the number of production facilities used to manufacture FPDs. As a result, an increase in FPD sales will not necessarily lead to a corresponding increase in photomask sales. The technology for fabricating FPDs continues to develop in order to increase the size and improve the resolution of FPDs. A slowdown in the development of new technologies for fabricating FPDs could reduce the demand for related photomasks even if demand for FPDs increases. The Company incurred net losses in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, and may incur future net losses. The Company incurred net losses of $41.9 million in fiscal 2009 and $210.8 million in fiscal 2008. These net losses were incurred due to the global recession and related severe downturn experienced by the semiconductor industry that began in 2008. Net losses incurred in both fiscal years 2009 and 2008 include significant non-cash charges for restructurings, impairments of goodwill, and impairments of long-lived assets. The Company cannot provide assurance of when Photronics will return to profitability. The Company's quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue to do so in the future which could adversely impact the Company's business. The Company has experienced fluctuations in its quarterly operating results and anticipates that such fluctuations will continue and could intensify in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility in the prices of the Company's securities, particularly its common stock and securities linked to the value of the Company's common stock. Operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including size and timing of orders and shipments, loss of significant customers, product mix, technological change, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, competition and general economic conditions. The Company operates in a high fixed cost environment and, to the extent its revenues and asset utilization increase or decrease, operating margins will be positively or negatively impacted. The Company's customers generally order photomasks on an as-needed basis, and substantially all of the Company's net sales in any quarter are dependent on orders received during that quarter. Since the Company operates with little backlog and the rate of new orders may vary significantly from month-to-month, the Company's capital expenditures and expense levels are based primarily on sales forecasts. Consequently, if anticipated sales in any quarter do not occur when expected, capital expenditures and expense levels could be disproportionately high, and the Company's operating results would be adversely affected. Due to the foregoing factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, in future quarters the Company's operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect the market prices of the Company's common stock. -7- The Company's industry is subject to rapid technological change and the Company might fail to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The photomask industry has been, and is expected to continue to be, characterized by technological change and evolving industry standards. In order to remain competitive, the Company will be required to continually anticipate, respond to and utilize changing technologies of increasing complexity in both traditional and emerging markets that it serves. In particular, the Company believes that, as semiconductor geometries continue to become smaller and FPDs become larger with improved performance, it will be required to manufacture increasingly complex photomasks. Additionally, demand for photomasks has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by changes in methods of fabricating semiconductors and high performance electronics (that could affect the type or quantity of photomasks utilized), such as changes in semiconductor demand that favor field programmable gate arrays and other semiconductor designs that replace application-specific ICs. Additionally, increased market acceptance of alternative methods of IC designs onto semiconductor wafers, such as direct-write lithography, could reduce or eliminate the need for photomasks in the production of semiconductors. As of the end of fiscal 2009, direct-write lithography has not been proven to be a commercially viable alternative to photomasks, as it is considered too slow for high volume semiconductor wafer production. However, should direct-write or any other alternative methods of transferring IC designs to semiconductor wafers without the use of photomasks achieve market acceptance, the Company's business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If the Company is unable to anticipate, respond to or utilize these or other changing technologies, due to resource, technological or other constraints, its business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, should sales volumes decrease based upon the flow of design releases from the Company's customers, the Company may have excess or underutilized production capacity that could significantly impact operating margins, or result in write-offs from asset impairments. The Company's operations will continue to require substantial capital, which it may be unable to obtain. The manufacture of photomasks requires substantial investments in high-end manufacturing capability at existing and new facilities. The Company expects that it will be required to continue to make substantial capital expenditures to meet the technological demands of its customers and to position it for future growth. The Company's capital expenditure payments for fiscal 2010 are expected to be in the range of $45 million to $55 million, of which $10 million was accrued as of November 1, 2009. Further, the Company's credit facility has a limitation on capital expenditure payments. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to obtain the additional capital required in connection with its operations on reasonable terms, if at all, or that any such expenditure will not have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company's agreements with Micron have several risks; should either company not comply or execute under these agreements it could significantly disrupt the Company's business and technology activities which could have a material effect on the Company's operations or cash flows. On May 5, 2006, Photronics and Micron entered into a joint venture known as MP Mask. The joint venture develops and produces photomasks for leading-edge and advanced next generation semiconductors. As part of the formation of the joint venture, Micron contributed its existing photomask technology center located at its Boise, Idaho, headquarters to MP Mask and Photronics paid Micron $135.0 million in exchange for a 49.99% interest in MP Mask, a license for photomask technology of Micron and certain supply agreements. The Company invested an additional $2.6 million in 2008 and $3.5 million in 2007 in MP Mask for capital expenditure and working capital purposes, and received distributions from MP Mask of $5.0 million in both 2009 and 2008. MP Mask is governed by a Board of Managers, appointed by Micron and Photronics. Since MP Mask's inception, Micron as a result of its majority ownership, has appointed the majority of the managers. The number of managers appointed by each party is subject to change as ownership interests change. Under the operating agreement relating to the MP Mask joint venture, through May 5, 2010, the Company may be required to make additional contributions to the joint venture up to the maximum amount defined in the operating agreement. However, should the Board of Managers determine that additional funding is required, the joint venture shall pursue its own financing. If the joint venture is unable to obtain its own financing it may request additional capital contributions from the Company. Should the Company choose not to make a requested contribution to the joint venture, Photronics' ownership interest may be reduced. On May 19, 2009, the Company's capital lease agreement with Micron for the U.S. nanoFab was canceled, at which time Photronics and Micron agreed to enter into a new lease agreement for the U.S. nanoFab building. Under provisions -8- of the new lease agreement, quarterly lease payments were reduced, the lease term was extended, and ownership of the property will not transfer to the Company at the end of the lease term. As a result of the new lease agreement, the Company reduced its lease obligations and the carrying value of its assets under capital leases by approximately $28 million. Including the $28 million reduction in carrying value of assets under capital leases, the Company's total investment to date in the purchase and equipping of the Company's U.S. nanoFab is approximately $157 million. The U.S. nanoFab began production in the second fiscal quarter of 2008. Failure by Photronics or Micron to comply or execute under any of these agreements, to capitalize on the use of existing technology or to further develop technology could result in a significant disruption to the Company's business and technology activities, and could adversely affect the Company's operations and cash flows. The Company has been dependent on sales to a limited number of large customers; the loss of any of these customers or any reduction in orders from these customers could have a material adverse effect on its sales and results of operations. Historically, the Company has sold a significant proportion of photomasks to a limited number of IC and FPD manufacturers. During fiscal 2009, one customer, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., accounted for approximately 19% of the Company's net sales. The Company's five largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 42% of net sales in fiscal 2009, 44% in fiscal 2008, and 43% in fiscal 2007. None of the Company's customers has entered into a long-term agreement with the Company requiring them to purchase the Company's products. The loss of a significant customer or any reduction or delay in orders from any significant customer, (including reductions or delays due to customer departures from recent buying patterns), or an unfavorable change in market, economic, or competitive conditions in the semiconductor or FPD industries, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance and business prospects. The continuing consolidation of semiconductor manufacturers and economic downturn in the semiconductor industry may increase the likelihood of losing a significant customer and have an adverse effect on the Company's financial performance and business prospects. The Company depends on a small number of suppliers for equipment and raw materials and, if the Company's suppliers do not deliver their products to them, the Company may be unable to deliver its products to its customers, which could adversely affect its business and results of operations. The Company relies on a limited number of photomask equipment manufacturers to develop and supply the equipment it uses. These equipment manufacturers currently require lead times of up to 12 months between the order and the delivery of certain photomask imaging and inspection equipment. The failure of such manufacturers to develop or deliver such equipment on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Further, the Company relies on equipment manufacturers to develop future generations of manufacturing equipment to meet its requirements. In addition, the manufacturing equipment necessary to produce advanced photomasks could become prohibitively expensive. The Company uses high precision quartz photomask blanks, pellicles, and electronic grade chemicals in its manufacturing processes. There are a limited number of suppliers of these raw materials and, for production of certain high-end photomasks, there is only one available supplier. The Company has no long-term contracts for the supply of these raw materials. Any delays or quality problems in connection with significant raw materials, particularly photomask blanks, could cause delays in shipments of photomasks, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates with respect to prices of equipment and raw materials used in manufacturing also could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The Company faces risks associated with complex manufacturing processes, including the use of sophisticated equipment and manufacturing processes with complex technologies. The inability of the Company to effectively utilize these processes and technologies could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company's complex manufacturing processes require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials, and are continuously modified in an effort to improve manufacturing yields and product quality. Minute impurities, defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower manufacturing yields and make products unmarketable. Moreover, manufacturing leading-edge photomasks is more complex and time consuming than -9- manufacturing less advanced photomasks, and may lead to delays in the manufacturing of all levels of photomasks. The Company has, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties and capacity limitations that have delayed the Company's ability to deliver products within the time frames contracted for by its customers. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will not experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, or be subject to increased costs or production capacity constraints in the future, any of which could result in a loss of customers or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company's debt agreements limit its ability to obtain financing and obligates the Company to repay debt. As of November 1, 2009, the Company had $2.6 million outstanding under its revolving credit facility and $27.2 million outstanding under its term loan agreement. The outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility was reduced by $120.2 million during the quarter ended November 1, 2009, primarily with the net proceeds of the Company's 5.5% convertible notes and common stock offerings, and with cash from operations. On June 8, 2009, the Company entered into the aforementioned term loan agreement in the U.S. for $27.2 million, which was used to repay outstanding foreign loans on June 12, 2009. Financial covenants related to these debts include, among others, a Senior Leverage Ratio, Total Leverage Ratio, Minimum Fixed Charge Ratio and minimum six-month EBITDA levels. Existing covenant restrictions limit the Company's ability to obtain additional debt financing and, should Photronics be unable to meet one or more of these covenants, the bank may require the Company to repay the outstanding balances prior to the expiration date of the agreements. The Company's ability to comply with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements may be affected by worsening economic or business conditions, or other events. Should the Company be unable to meet one or more of these covenants, lenders may require the Company to repay its outstanding balances prior to the expiration date of the agreements. The Company cannot assure that additional sources of financing will be available to pay off long-term borrowings to avoid default. Should the Company default on any of the long-term borrowings, a cross default would occur on other long-term borrowings, unless amended or waived. The Company's prior and future acquisitions may entail certain operational and financial risks. The Company has made significant acquisitions throughout its history. Acquisitions have focused on increasing its manufacturing presence in Asia, including its acquisition of Precision Semiconductor Mask Corporation, a Taiwanese photomask manufacturer, in 2000 and PK Ltd., a Korean photomask manufacturer, in 2001 and increasing its technology base through the MP Mask joint venture between Photronics and Micron in 2006. The Company may make additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions place significant demands on the Company's administrative, operational and financial personnel and systems. Managing acquired operations entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees of acquired operations. Sales of acquired operations also may decline following an acquisition, particularly if there is an overlap of customers served by the Company and the acquired operation, and these customers transition to another vendor in order to ensure a second source of supply. Furthermore, the Company may be required to utilize its cash reserves and/or issue new securities for future acquisitions, which could have a dilutive effect on its earnings per share. The Company's cash flow from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate for its current and long term needs. The Company's liquidity is highly dependent on its sales volume and the timing of its capital expenditures, (which can vary significantly from period to period), as it operates in a high fixed cost environment. Depending on conditions in the IC semiconductor and FPD market, the Company's cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate to meet the Company's current and long-term needs for capital expenditures, operations and debt repayments. Historically, in certain years the Company has used external financing to fund these needs. Due to conditions in the credit markets, some financing instruments used by the Company in the past may not be currently available to it. The Company is evaluating alternatives to increase its capital, delaying capital expenditures and evaluating further cost reduction initiatives. However, the Company cannot assure that additional sources of financing would be available to it on commercially favorable terms should its capital requirements exceed cash available from operations and existing cash, and cash available under its credit facility. -10- The Company may incur unforeseen charges related to its 2009 restructurings in China and the U.K. or, it may fail to realize projected benefits related to these or any other possible future facility closures or restructures. In order to lower its operating costs and increase its manufacturing efficiencies, the Company ceased the manufacture of photomasks at its facility in Manchester, U.K., in January 2009 and at its facility in Shanghai, China, in July 2009. However, the Company cannot assure that these actions will not result in unforeseen costs, disruptions in its operations, or other negative events that could result in its failing to realize the projected benefits of these restructures. The Company also cannot assure that there will not be additional facility closures or other restructurings in the near or long term, nor can it assure that it will not incur significant charges should there be any additional future facility closures or restructures. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry; should the Company be unable to meet its customers' requirements for product quality, timeliness of delivery or technical capabilities, it could adversely affect the Company's sales. The photomask industry is highly competitive, and most of the Company's customers utilize more than one photomask supplier. The Company's competitors include Compugraphics, Inc., Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., Hoya Corporation, SK-Electronics Co., Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and Toppan Chungwha Electronics Corporation. The Company also competes with semiconductor manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations, some of which market their photomask manufacturing services to outside customers. The Company expects to face continued competition from these and other suppliers in the future. Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than it does. Also, when producing smaller geometry photomasks, some of the Company's competitors may be able to more rapidly develop, produce, and achieve higher manufacturing yields than the Company. The Company believes that consistency of product quality and timeliness of delivery, as well as price, technical capability, and service, are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting their photomask suppliers. The Company's inability to meet these requirements could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. In the past, competition led to pressure to reduce prices which, the Company believes, contributed to the decrease in the number of independent manufacturers. This pressure to reduce prices may continue in the future. The Company's substantial international operations are subject to additional risks. International sales accounted for approximately 72% of the Company's net sales for fiscal 2009, 77% in fiscal 2008, and 75% in fiscal 2007. The Company believes that maintaining significant international operations requires it to have, among other things, a local presence in the markets in which it operates. This requires significant investments of financial, managerial, operational, and other resources. Since 1996, the Company has significantly expanded its operations in international markets by acquiring existing businesses in Europe, establishing a manufacturing operation in Singapore, acquiring majority equity interests in photomask manufacturing operations in Korea and Taiwan and building a new manufacturing facility for FPD photomasks in Taiwan. As the served market continues to shift to Asia, the Company will continue to assess its manufacturing base and may close or open new facilities to adapt to these market conditions. Operations outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to generate sales outside the United States and, consequently, on its business and results of operations. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially, adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, or financial condition. The Company's financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principals generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and are reported in U.S. dollars. The Company's international operations have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Japanese yen, Singapore dollar, euro, British pound and Chinese renminbi. In fiscal 2009, the Company recorded a net loss of $3.1 million in its statement of operations from changes in foreign currency rates, while its net assets were increased by $10.7 million as a result of the translation of foreign currency financial statements to U.S. dollars. In the event of significant foreign currency fluctuations, the Company's results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected. -11- The Company's business depends on managerial and technical personnel, who are in great demand, and its inability to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company's success, in part, depends upon key managerial, engineering and technical personnel, as well as its ability to continue to attract and retain additional personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material, adverse effect upon the Company's business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company can retain its key managerial, and technical employees, or that it can attract similar additional employees in the future. The Company believes that it provides competitive compensation and incentive packages to its employees. The Company may be unable to enforce or defend its ownership and use of proprietary technology, and the utilization of unprotected Company developed technology by its competitors could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial position. The Company believes that the success of its business depends more on its proprietary technology, information and processes, and know-how than on its patents or trademarks. Much of its proprietary information and technology relating to manufacturing processes is not patented and may not be patentable. The Company cannot offer assurance that: * it will be able to adequately protect its technology; * competitors will not independently develop similar technology; or * international intellectual property laws will adequately protect its intellectual property rights. The Company may become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products or processes. Any such claims, with or without merit, or litigation to enforce or protect its intellectual property rights or to defend itself against claimed infringement of the rights of others could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources, and product shipment delays or, could force the Company to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of these claims. Any of the foregoing could have a material, adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial position. The Company may be unprepared for changes to environmental laws and regulations and may incur liabilities arising from environmental matters. The Company is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and the handling, use, storage, disposal and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes. Changes in these laws and regulations may have a material, adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations. Any failure by the Company to adequately comply with these laws and regulations could subject it to significant future liabilities. In addition, these laws and regulations may impose clean-up liabilities on current and former owners and operators of real property, without regard to fault, so that these liabilities may be joint and several with other parties. In the past, the Company has been involved in remediation activities relating to its properties. The Company believes, based upon current information, that environmental liabilities relating to these activities or other matters are not material to its financial statements. However, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur any material environmental liabilities in the future. The Company's production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster or labor strike, either of which could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company's facilities in Taiwan are located in a seismically active area. In addition, a major catastrophe such as an earthquake or other natural disaster, labor strikes, or work stoppage at any of the Company's manufacturing facilities could result in a prolonged interruption of its business. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of the Company's products and the loss of sales and customers, which could have a material, adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. -12- The Company's sales can be impacted by the health and stability of the general economy, which could adversely affect its operations and cash flows. The global recession and other unfavorable changes in general economic conditions in the U.S. or other countries in which the Company does business may have the effect of reducing the demand for photomasks. For example, an economic downturn may lead to a decrease in demand for end products whose manufacturing process involves the use of photomasks, which may result in a reduction in new product design and development by semiconductor manufacturers, which could adversely affect the Company's operations and cash flows. Changes in the Company's credit standing could adversely affect its financial position. The Company's ability to raise debt capital can be materially influenced by acquisitions, dispositions, other investment decisions, and the results of its operations in the near-term. Should the Company's credit standing decline, its cost and ability to raise needed working and investment capital could adversely affect its results of operations and cash flows. Additional taxes could adversely affect the Company's financial results. The Company's tax filings are subjected to audit by tax authorities in the various jurisdictions in which it does business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or through the courts. Currently, the Company believes there are no outstanding assessments whose resolution would result in a material adverse financial result. However, the Company cannot offer assurances that unasserted or potential future assessments would not have a material, adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. The Company's business could be adversely impacted by global or regional catastrophic events. The Company's business could be adversely affected by terrorist acts, major natural disasters, widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases, or the outbreak or escalation of wars, especially in the Asian region where the Company generates a significant portion of its international sales. Such events in the geographic regions in which the Company does business, including political tensions within the Korean Peninsula where a major portion of the Company's foreign operations are located, could have material, adverse impacts on its sales volume, cost of raw materials, earnings, cash flows and financial condition. The fair value of certain warrants issued on the Company's common stock is subject to fluctuations with the market price of the Company's common stock, and may have a material, adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. On May 15, 2009, in connection with an amendment to the Company's credit facility, Photronics issued 2.1 million warrants to purchase the Company's common stock, approximately 0.8 million of which were outstanding at November 1, 2009. As a result of certain net cash settleable put provisions, the warrants were recorded as a liability during fiscal 2009 and are subsequently being reported at fair value. The warrants are each exercisable for one share of common stock and have an exercise price of $0.01. Therefore, changes in the market price of the Company's common stock could result in a significant change in the fair value of the warrants, which would result in a charge or credit to other income (expense) in the Company's statements of operations. During the period that the warrants were outstanding in fiscal 2009, the market price of the Company's common stock increased, which resulted in a non-cash loss of $0.3 million. Changes in the market price of the Company's common stock may continue to have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations on a non-cash basis. Certain warrants issued by the Company include a "put" provision, giving the holders the option to sell the warrants to the Company at approximately the market price of the Company's common stock, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's cash flows. The warrants discussed above include a put provision which may be exercised from May 15, 2012 through the expiration of the warrants on May 15, 2014. The put provision is only exercisable if the Company's common stock is not traded on a national exchange or if the Company's credit facility, which matures on January 31, 2011, has not been paid in full by another financing facility (new credit facility, debt and/or an equity securities, or capital contributions) or with other funds. As of November 1, 2009, approximately 768,000 warrants were outstanding that include a put provision. The purchase of a significant amount of the Company's common stock by Photronics under the put provision may have a material adverse effect on the Company's cash flows. -13- Servicing the Company's debt requires a significant amount of cash, and the Company may not have sufficient cash flow from its operations to pay its indebtedness. The Company's ability to make scheduled payments of the principal and interest or to refinance its indebtedness depends on its future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond the Company's control. The Company's business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If the Company is unable to generate such cash flow, it may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. The Company's ability to refinance its indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and the Company's financial condition at such time. The Company may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on its debt obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 