ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We are in default in the payment of our 8% Note. We are in default of the $775,000 note related to the Loan Agreement with Strasbourger, Pearson, Tulcin, Wolff, Incorporated dated March 12, 2006 (“SPTW”) a privately-held NYSE Member Firm, which specializes in convertible securities, and small-cap private placement. The note bears interest at the rate of 8% per annum and is secured by all of the Company’s assets. The note was due on March 12, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount of $250,000, together with accrued interest of $71,108 or a total of $321,108, is due and payable. We have been engaged in discussions with the lenders and at this juncture, we believe to be very close to settling this matter. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented on the basis that we are a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph that states that we have an accumulated deficit and experienced recurring losses from operations that raise a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We have an accumulated deficit of $12,237,547 and $11,556,416 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we used cash in operations of $115,498 and $30,159, respectively. Our ability to meet future cash and liquidity requirements is dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to raise more capital, successfully negotiate extended payment terms with our lenders and the performance of our investments. The presence of the going concern note may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties such as potential investors, our lenders and potential targets for investment. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our lenders would foreclose on their collateral and we would have to liquidate our remaining assets, if any. This would have a material adverse effect on your investment in us. We are in default in the agreement to acquire MTA and ST. Pursuant to our agreement to purchase MTA and ST, Phoenix Holding agreed to invest up to $250,000 for software development, promotion, advertising and to assist in funding of the necessary infrastructure for My Transfer Agent, LLC. Furthermore, pursuant to the employment agreement with Leon Urbatel dated October 06, 2008, we are committed to paying Mr. Urbatel a bonus of $25,000 within 10 days from the execution of the agreement. As of March 09, 2009, a balance of $22,500 is still owned by the Company. Since neither payments have been completely satisfied, we are currently in default with the seller of the transfer agency. We have historically lost money and decreases may continue in the future. We have historically lost money. The net loss for 2008 was approximately $681,131 and we expect that future losses are likely to occur. Accordingly, we may experience significant liquidity and cash flow problems if we are not able to raise additional capital as needed and on acceptable terms. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in reaching or maintaining profitable operations. 5 We need additional capital to finance operations. Our operations have relied almost entirely on external financing to fund our operations. Such financing has historically come from a combination of borrowings and from the sale of common stock and assets to third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our anticipated operating expenses and future expansion. Among other things, external financing will be required to cover our operating costs. We cannot assure you that financing whether from external sources or related parties will be available in an amount sufficient to continue operations or on terms favorable to us. If we sell shares of our common stock to raise capital, the equity interests of our existing shareholders may be diluted. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing we may have to curtail, suspend or cease business operations. Any of these events would be materially harmful to our business and may result in a lower stock price. We are a Company with a limited operating history. We have a limited operating history as a transfer agent. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we will not achieve our targets and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially. Our officers and directors have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval and their interests may differ from other stockholders. We have 3 shareholders that own more than a 5% interest and among the three of them, they own approximately 23.60% of the outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers directly and indirectly own in the aggregate approximately 16.65% of our outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers, whether acting alone or together, may have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our Board for approval, including issuing common and preferred stock, and appointing officers, which could have a material impact on mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these board members may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. We may change our business objectives without shareholder approval. We may make acquisitions without shareholder approval and such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. We have a limited operating history. As such, we are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the lack of experience in managing or operating a transfer agent company. Our ability to achieve our targets will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our ability to identify, analyze, and acquire competitors that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our management’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to customers, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us. We compete with a large number of private and public transfer agents including financial services companies such as banks. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy. Our business model depends upon the development of strong referral relationships. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms, we will not be able to grow our business and achieve our objectives. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to provide us with potential clients, and therefore there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of new revenues. We may not realize gains from our Current Portfolio. We invested in debt securities, as well as equity securities. However, the equity interests we received may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our Current Portfolio, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. 6 The lack of liquidity in Current Portfolio may adversely affect our business. As stated above, our current investments are not generally in publicly traded securities. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Also, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We expect that our holdings of equity securities may require several years to appreciate in value, and we can offer no assurance that such appreciation will occur. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the rate at which we make new investments, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Regulations governing our operation as a transfer agent company could affect our ability to raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We will require a substantial amount of capital, which we may acquire from the following sources: Senior securities and other indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities”. If we issue senior securities, including preferred stock and debt securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we incur leverage to make investments, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock. If we issue debt securities or preferred stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. In addition, such securities may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that could further restrict our operating flexibility. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Common stock. We may sell the Company's common stock, warrants, options or rights to acquire common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interest and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future on favorable terms or at all. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. A portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds (if we do borrow) and the interest rate on the debt securities in which we invested. Some of our investments in debt securities are at fixed rates and others at variable rates. We may, but will not be required to, hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise. Provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. 7 RISKS RELATED TO OUR CURRENT PORTFOLIO Start-up and micro companies are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, decreasing life cycles and periodic downturns. Prior to the withdraw to be treated as a business development company, we invested in small and micro companies, some of which may have relatively short operating histories. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of start-up and micro companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we may do so in the future, to date we have generally not taken controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Many factors relating to the price of our common stock are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of regulated investment companies, business development companies or other financial services companies; · actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; · general economic conditions and trends; · loss of a major funding source; or · departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. 8 There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our targets that will allow any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our common stock is deemed to be a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined and promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for the common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. For example many mutual funds and other institutional investors are prohibited from investing in “penny stocks.” This may make it more difficult for investors of the common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Penny stocks are stock with a price of less than $5.00 per share. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. There has been a limited public market for our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Substantial fluctuations in our stock price could significantly reduce the price of our stock. Our common stock is traded on the “Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board,” which may make it more difficult for you to resell your shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is currently traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) where we expect it to remain for the foreseeable future. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in OTCBB stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risks to investors are greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Changes in the law or regulations that govern us could have a material effect on us or our operations. We are regulated by the SEC. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations that govern transfer agents may significantly affect our business. Any change in the law or regulations that govern our business could have a material effect on us or our operations. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations also are subject to change, which may have a material effect on our operations. The market for our stock is limited and our stock price may be volatile. The market for our common stock has been limited due to low trading volume and the small number of brokerage firms acting as market makers. Because of the limitations of our market and volatility of the market price of our stock you may face difficulties in selling shares at attractive prices. The average daily trading volume for our stock has varied significantly from week to week and from month to month, and the trading volume often varies widely from day to day. 9 We may incur significant expenses as a result of being quoted on the OTCBB, which may negatively impact our financial performance. We may incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of being listed on the OTCBB. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules implemented by the Commission has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that compliance with these laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may substantially increase our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. As a result, there may be a substantial increase in legal, accounting and certain other expenses in the future, which would negatively impact our financial performance and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 