Risk factors—Risks relating to our business and structure—There are significant potential conflicts of interest.” Our code of ethics generally does not permit investments by our employees in securities that may be purchased or held by us. You can request a copy of our Code of Ethics free of charge by mailing a request to us at 3300 North A Street, Suite 2-210, Midland, Texas 79750. Compliance Policies and Procedures. We have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and are required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. We have designated a Chief Compliance Officer to be responsible for administering the policies and procedures. In light of the comments received by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission discussed in “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business and Operation As a Business Development Company—The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has raised concerns about our regulatory compliance which if proven correct, may have material, adverse effects on our operations and financial performance,” our Chief Compliance Officer is conducting a thorough review of all of our existing compliance procedures. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. On July 30, 2002, President Bush signed into law the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as the rules and regulations promulgated there under, imposed a wide variety of new regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. Many of these requirements affect us. For example: · Pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “1934 Act”), our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer must certify the accuracy of the financial statements contained in our periodic reports. · Pursuant to Item 307 of Regulation S-K, our periodic reports must disclose our conclusions about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. · Pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the 1934 Act, our management must prepare a report regarding its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, which must be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. 7 · Pursuant to Item 308 of Regulation S-K and Rule 13a-15 of the 1934 Act, our periodic reports must disclose whether there were significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. · The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to review our current policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated there under. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 8 Item 1.A RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATION AS A BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has raised concerns about our regulatory compliance which, if proven correct, may have material, adverse effects on our operations and financial performance. In a phone call in July 2006 and by a letter dated February 22, 2007, which we will refer to as the “February Letter”, the staff of the Office of Disclosure & Review of the SEC has raised a number of concerns that, if correct, may indicate that we are not in compliance with the regulatory requirements applicable to it under the 1940 Act and the 1934 Act. The issues raised by the staff include, but are not limited to, inadequate disclosure of potential liabilities in public filings, failure to file certain required exhibits and filings with the SEC, failure to comply with applicable regulations under the 1940 Act and our internal compliance procedures, such as entering into a custody agreement with the custodian of our securities and distributing securities of our portfolio companies to affiliates, and inadequate fair value policies and methodologies. Our management is currently reviewing the issues raised in the February Letter and intends to take any steps necessary to ensure that we are in compliance with all regulatory requirements. Although we do not agree with all of the issues raised by the staff, to the extent the issues represent violations of the 1940 Act or the 1934 Act, we may be subject to regulatory actions by the SEC and to material adverse effects on our operations and our financial performance. In addition, we may no longer be able to raise funds under Regulation E and may have to change the manner in which we account for our portfolio companies and several other matters relating to our operations. In addition, some of the steps we may need to take to bring the Company into regulatory compliance may in themselves result in increased costs to the Company and have material adverse effects on our operations and financial performance. We are in default in the payment of our 8% Note. We are in default of a note payable to a company controlled by certain of our shareholders. The note bears interest at the rate of 8% per annum and is secured by all of the Company’s assets. The note was due in March 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding principal amount of $187,500, together with accrued interest of $48,696, or a total of $236,196, was due and payable. We have been engaged in discussions with the lender and at this junction, we believe to be very close to settling this matter. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented on the basis that we are a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 includes an explanatory paragraph that states that we have an accumulated deficit and experienced recurring losses from operations that raise a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We have an accumulated deficit of $11,569,638 and $10,346,731 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we used cash in operations of $1,022,907 and $626,757, respectively. Our ability to meet future cash and liquidity requirements is dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to raise more capital, successfully negotiate extended payment terms with our lenders and the performance of our investments. The presence of the going concern note may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties such as potential investors, our lenders and potential targets for investment. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our lenders would foreclose on their collateral and we would have to liquidate our remaining assets, if any. This would have a material adverse effect on your investment in us. 9 Our internal procedures and adherence to our compliance program may be inadequate. Based on the issues raised in the February Letter and on past and recent transactions, we believe that our internal procedures and the adherence to our compliance program may be inadequate for a public company, particularly a BDC. We are currently reviewing all of our internal procedures and our compliance program to determine what steps need to be taken by us to address any inadequacies. To the extent that we incur any liability from any inadequacies in our internal procedures and adherence to our compliance program, our operations and financial performance may experience material adverse effects. We have historically lost money and decreases may continue in the future. We have historically lost money. The net decrease in net assets resulting from operations for fiscal year 2006 was approximately $1,022,907 and future decreases are likely to occur. Accordingly, we may experience significant liquidity and cash flow problems if we are not able to raise additional capital as needed and on acceptable terms. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in reaching or maintaining profitable operations. We need additional capital to finance operations. Our operations have relied almost entirely on external financing to fund our operations. Such financing has historically come from a combination of borrowings and from the sale of common stock and assets to third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our anticipated operating expenses and future expansion. Among other things, external financing will be required to cover our operating costs. We cannot assure you that financing whether from external sources or related parties will be available in an amount sufficient to continue operations or on terms favorable to us. If we sell shares of our common stock to raise capital, the equity interests of our existing shareholders may be diluted. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing we may have to curtail, suspend or cease business operations. Any of these events would be materially harmful to our business and may result in a lower stock price. Our investments may not generate sufficient income to cover our operations. We intend to make investments into qualified companies that will provide the greatest overall return on our investment. However, certain of those investments may fail, in which case we will not receive any return on our investment. In addition, our investments may not generate income, either in the immediate future, or at all. As a result, we may have to sell additional stock, or borrow money, to cover our operating expenses. The effect of such actions could cause our stock price to decline or, if we are not successful in raising additional capital, we could cease to continue as a going concern. We may need to amend some of our previous public filings if the characterization of some of our transactions described in these filings are materially inaccurate. Our review of the issues raised by the staff of the SEC in the February Letter has brought to our attention that some of the transactions previously disclosed in our public filings may have been mis-characterized and materially inaccurate. We are currently in discussions with prior management and previous members of our board of directors to ascertain if there actually was a mis-characterization of these transactions and if so, how these transactions should be characterized. Based on these discussions we will amend any filings affected to the extent necessary as soon as feasible. If we need to amend our previous filings, we may incur liability in connection with the previously made filings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Errors in our payroll tax returns may require a restatement of our financial statements for 2004 and 2005. We are in discussions with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to errors in our payroll tax returns for the 2004 and 2005 fiscal years. Depending on the outcome of these discussions, we may need to restate our financial statements for 2004 and 2005. Such a restatement may have a negative impact on the confidence of our current and potential investors, which may have a materially adverse impact on our share price and your investment in us. In addition, we may incur financial penalties from the Internal Revenue Service that, depending on the amount of these penalties, may have a materially adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. We may need to adopt new procedures for determining the fair value of certain of our portfolio securities, which may result in a decreased value determination for some of our portfolio securities. In the February Letter, the staff raised the concern that our current procedures for determining fair value of some of our portfolio securities may not be in accordance with established fair value procedures. We are currently examining our fair value procedures to determine whether changes are required and will make any changes to the extent required. It is possible that any changes made may result in a decreased valuation of some or all of our portfolio securities, which could have a materially adverse effect on your investment with us. 10 We are a company with a limited operating history, and our management lacks experience in operating a business development company. We elected to be regulated as a business development company, or BDC, in March of 2004 and have a limited operating history as a BDC. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially. In addition, none of our executive officers has any experience in managing the operations of a business development company. This lack of experience may adversely affect the value of your investment in our company if, for instance, our lack of experience causes us to not be in compliance with our regulatory requirements. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a “business development company” would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a business development company, we may be required to register as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would make us subject to additional regulatory requirements and decrease our operating flexibility. Our officers and directors have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Although none of our shareholders owns in excess of five percent of our outstanding shares and our directors and executive officers own in the aggregate approximately 2% of our outstanding shares , our directors and executive officers, whether acting alone or together, may have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our Board for approval, including issuing common and preferred stock, and appointing officers, which could have a material impact on mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these board members may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. We may change our investment policies without further shareholder approval. Although we are limited by the Investment Company Act of 1940 with respect to the percentage of our assets that must be invested in qualified investment companies, we are not limited with respect to the minimum standard that any investment company must meet, nor the industries in which those investment companies must operate. We may make investments without shareholder approval and such investments may deviate significantly from our historic operations. Any change in our investment policy or selection of investments could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. We have a limited operating history. As such, we are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the lack of experience in managing or operating a business development company. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our investment team’s ability to identify, analyze, invest in and finance companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our management’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in start-up and micro companies. We compete with a large number of private equity and venture capital funds, other equity and non-equity based investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and specialty finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. 11 Our business model depends upon the development of strong referral relationships with private equity and venture capital funds and investment banking firms. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio and achieve our investment objectives. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and therefore there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of investments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in debt securities, we generally expect to acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. As stated above, our investments are not generally in publicly traded securities. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Also, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We expect that our holdings of equity securities may require several years to appreciate in value, and we can offer no assurance that such appreciation will occur. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the rate at which we make new investments, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. Our business will require a substantial amount of capital, which we may acquire from the following sources: Senior securities and other indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets, less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If we issue senior securities, including preferred stock and debt securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we incur leverage to make investments, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock. If we issue debt securities or preferred stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. In addition, such securities may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that could further restrict our operating flexibility. Our ability to pay dividends or issue additional senior securities would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio was not at least 200%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we would be unable to issue any additional senior securities. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. 12 Common stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. However, we may, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In certain limited circumstances, pursuant to an SEC staff interpretation, we may also issue shares at a price below net asset value in connection with a transferable rights offering so long as: (1) the offer does not discriminate among shareholders; (2) we use our best efforts to ensure an adequate trading market exists for the rights; and (3) the ratio of the offering does not exceed one new share for each three rights held. If our stock price is less that our net asset value per share, it will be extremely difficult to raise capital through the sale of common stock without obtaining shareholder approval. In the event shareholder approval is not obtained, our ability to raise adequate capital to continue as a going concern will be negatively impacted. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. A portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds (if we do borrow) and the interest rate on the debt securities in which we invest. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our investment activities. Some of our investments in debt securities are at fixed rates and others at variable rates. We may, but will not be required to, hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To remain entitled to the tax benefits accorded RIC under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we may use debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the annual distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for special tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax on all our income. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. 13 Provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Start-up and micro companies are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, decreasing life cycles and periodic downturns. We invest in companies in the technology-related sector, some of which may have relatively short operating histories. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of start-up and micro companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. Our investments in start-up and micro companies that we are targeting may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. Although a prospective portfolio company’s assets are one component of our analysis when determining whether to provide debt capital, we generally do not base an investment decision primarily on the liquidation value of a company’s balance sheet assets. Instead, given the nature of the companies that we invest in, we also review the company’s historical and projected cash flows, equity capital and “soft” assets, including intellectual property (patented and non-patented), databases, business relationships (both contractual and non-contractual) and the like. Accordingly, considerably higher levels of overall risk will likely be associated with our portfolio compared with that of a traditional asset-based lender whose security consists primarily of receivables, inventories, equipment and other tangible assets. Interest rates payable by our portfolio companies may not compensate for these additional risks. Specifically, investment in the start-up and micro companies that we are targeting involves a number of significant risks, including: · these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any value from the liquidation of such collateral; · they typically have limited operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; · because they tend to be privately owned, there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; · they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; and · they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant “managerial assistance” to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. 14 Elections to not make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We intend to invest primarily in senior debt securities, but may also invest in subordinated debt securities, issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we will not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such companies, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not best serve our interests as debt investors. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we may do so in the future, to date we have generally not taken controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Many factors relating to the price of our common stock are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of regulated investment companies, business development companies or other financial services companies; 15 · changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to regulated investment companies or business development companies; · actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; · general economic conditions and trends; · loss of a major funding source; or · departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Our shares may trade at discounts from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term. Shares of business development companies may trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. The possibilities that our shares of common stock will trade at a discount from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term are separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. It is not possible to predict whether our shares will trade at, above, or below net asset value. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our common stock is deemed to be a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined and promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These requirements may reduce the potential market for the common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. For example many mutual funds and other institutional investors are prohibited from investing in “penny stocks.” This may make it more difficult for investors of the common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Penny stocks are stock with a price of less than $5.00 per share. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. There has been a limited public market for our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Substantial fluctuations in our stock price could significantly reduce the price of our stock. Our common stock is traded on the “Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board,” which may make it more difficult for you to resell your shares due to suitability requirements. Our common stock is currently traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) where we expect it to remain for the foreseeable future. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in OTCBB stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risks to investors are greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. 16 Future developments may cause our stock to be no longer traded on the OTCBB. Future developments, such as a loss of assets, an insolvency, or an inability to comply with certain regulatory requirements, may cause our stock to be no longer listed on the OTCBB, which may make it more difficult to sell your stock or may affect the price at which you may be able to sell your stock. Changes in the law or regulations that govern us could have a material effect on us or our operations. We are regulated by the SEC. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations that govern business development companies, regulated investment companies, and real estate investment trusts may significantly affect our business. Any change in the law or regulations that govern our business could have a material effect on us or our operations. Laws and regulations may be changed from time to time, and the interpretations of the relevant laws and regulations also are subject to change, which may have a material effect on our operations. The market for our stock is limited and our stock price may be volatile. The market for our common stock has been limited due to low trading volume and the small number of brokerage firms acting as market makers. Because of the limitations of our market and volatility of the market price of our stock you may face difficulties in selling shares at attractive prices. The average daily trading volume for our stock has varied significantly from week to week and from month to month, and the trading volume often varies widely from day to day. We may incur significant expenses as a result of being quoted on the OTCBB, which may negatively impact our financial performance. We may incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result of being listed on the OTCBB. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules implemented by the Commission has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that compliance with these laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as discussed in the following risk factor, may substantially increase our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. As a result, there may be a substantial increase in legal, accounting and certain other expenses in the future, which would negatively impact our financial performance and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be considered effective, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and in turn have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal controls over financial reporting. Such report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by management. The report will also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of internal controls. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective as of December 31, 2006, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s evaluation or on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs, and our assumptions. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” and “estimates” and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the assumptions on which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions also could be inaccurate. Important assumptions include our ability to originate new loans and investments, certain margins and levels of profitability and the availability of additional capital. In light of these and other uncertainties, the inclusion of a projection or forward-looking statement in this annual report should not be regarded as a representation by us that our plans and objectives will be achieved. These risks and uncertainties include those described or identified in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report. 17 You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 