ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented on the basis that we are a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 includes an explanatory paragraph that states that we have an accumulated deficit and experienced recurring losses from operations that raise a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We have an accumulated deficit of $18,486,645 and $17,346,149 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we used cash in operations of $792,232 and $101,955, respectively. Our ability to meet future cash and liquidity requirements is dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to raise more capital, successfully negotiate extended payment terms with our lenders and the performance of our investments. The presence of the going concern note may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties such as potential investors, our lenders and potential targets for investment. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, our lenders would foreclose on their collateral and we would have to liquidate our remaining assets, if any. This would have a material adverse effect on your investment in us. We have historically lost money and decreases may continue in the future. We have historically lost money. The net loss for 2010 was approximately $1,140,497 and we expect that future losses are likely to occur. Accordingly, we may experience significant liquidity and cash flow problems if we are not able to raise additional capital as needed and on acceptable terms. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in reaching or maintaining profitable operations. We need additional capital to finance operations. Our operations have relied almost entirely on external financing to fund our operations. Such financing has historically come from a combination of borrowings and from the sale of common stock and assets to third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our anticipated operating expenses and future expansion. Among other things, external financing will be required to cover our operating costs. We cannot assure you that financing whether from external sources or related parties will be available in an amount sufficient to continue operations or on terms favorable to us. If we sell shares of our common stock to raise capital, the equity interests of our existing shareholders may be diluted. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing we may have to curtail, suspend or cease business operations. Any of these events would be materially harmful to our business and may result in a lower stock price. We are a Company with a limited operating history. We have a limited operating history as a transfer agent. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the risk that we will not achieve our targets and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially. Our officers and directors have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval and their interests may differ from other stockholders. We have 3 shareholders that own more than a 10% interest and among them, they own approximately 39.27% of the outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers directly and indirectly own in the aggregate approximately 15.63% of our outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers, whether acting alone or together, may have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our Board for approval, including issuing common and preferred stock, and appointing officers, which could have a material impact on mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these board members may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. We may change our business objectives without shareholder approval. We may make acquisitions without shareholder approval and such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. (4) Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. We have a limited operating history. As such, we are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the lack of experience in managing or operating a transfer agent company. Our ability to achieve our targets will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our ability to identify, analyze, and acquire competitors that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our management’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to customers, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us. We compete with a large number of private and public transfer agents including financial services companies such as banks. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy. Our business model depends upon the development of strong referral relationships. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms, we will not be able to grow our business and achieve our objectives. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to provide us with potential clients, and therefore there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of new revenues. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the rate at which we make new investments, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Regulations governing our operation as a transfer agent company could affect our ability to raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. We will require a substantial amount of capital, which we may acquire from the following sources: Senior securities and other indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities”. If we issue senior securities, including preferred stock and debt securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we incur leverage to make investments, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock. If we issue debt securities or preferred stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. In addition, such securities may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that could further restrict our operating flexibility. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Common stock. We may sell the Company’s common stock, warrants, options or rights to acquire common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interest and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future on favorable terms or at all. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. A portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds (if we do borrow) and the interest rate on the debt securities in which we invested. Some of our investments in debt securities are at fixed rates and others at variable rates. We may, but will not be required to, hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise. Provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. (5) Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 