Risk factors—Risks relating to our business and structure—There are significant potential conflicts of interest." Our code of ethics generally does not permit investments by our employees in securities that may be purchased or held by us. You may read and copy the code of ethics at the SEC's Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-202-942-8090. In addition, the code of ethics is available on the EDGAR Database on the SEC's Internet site at http://www.sec.gov. You may obtain copies of the code of ethics, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following Email address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by writing the SEC's Public Reference Section, Washington, D.C. 20549. Compliance Policies and Procedures. We have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and are required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually for their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation, and to designate a Chief Compliance Officer to be responsible for administering the policies and procedures. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. On July 30, 2002, President Bush signed into law the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, imposed a wide variety of new regulatory requirements on publicly-held companies and their insiders. Many of these requirements affect us. For example: · Pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer must certify the accuracy of the financial statements contained in our periodic reports; · Pursuant to Item 307 of Regulation S-K, our periodic reports must disclose our conclusions about the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures; · Pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the 1934 Act, our management must prepare a report regarding its assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, which must be audited by our independent registered public accounting firm; and · Pursuant to Item 308 of Regulation S-K and Rule 13a-15 of the 1934 Act, our periodic reports must disclose whether there were significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. · The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to review our current policies and procedures to determine whether we comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We will continue to monitor our compliance with all regulations that are adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and will take actions necessary to ensure that we are in compliance therewith. 11 RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE We are a new company with a limited operating history. We elected to be a Business Development Company in March of 2004 and have a limited operating history. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise; including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of your investment in us could decline substantially. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would decrease our operating flexibility. We Have Historically Lost Money and Losses May Continue in the Future We have historically lost money. The loss for fiscal year 2005 was approximately $626,757 and future losses are likely to occur. Accordingly, we may experience significant liquidity and cash flow problems if we are not able to raise additional capital as needed and on acceptable terms. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in reaching or maintaining profitable operations. We Will Need to Raise Additional Capital to Finance Operations Our operations have relied almost entirely on external financing to fund our operations. Such financing has historically come from a combination of borrowings and from the sale of common stock and assets to third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our anticipated operating expenses and future expansion. Among other things, external financing will be required to cover our operating costs. We cannot assure you that financing whether from external sources or related parties will be available if needed or on favorable terms. The sale of our common stock to raise capital may cause dilution to our existing shareholders. Our inability to obtain adequate financing will result in the need to curtail business operations. Any of these events would be materially harmful to our business and may result in a lower stock price. There is Substantial Doubt About Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Due to Recurring Losses and Working Capital Shortages, Which Means that We May Not Be Able to Continue Operations Unless We Obtain Additional Funding The report of our independent accountants on our December 31, 2005 financial statements included an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to recurring losses and working capital shortages. Our ability to continue as a going concern will be determined by our ability to obtain additional funding. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our Common Stock May Be Affected By Limited Trading Volume and May Fluctuate Significantly There has been a limited public market for our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. As a result, this could adversely affect our shareholders' ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Substantial fluctuations in our stock price could significantly reduce the price of our stock. 12 Our Common Stock is Traded on the "Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board," Which May Make it More Difficult For Investors to Resell Their Shares Due to Suitability Requirements Our common stock is currently traded on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) where we expect it to remain for the foreseeable future. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in OTCBB stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors are greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Nevada Law and Our Charter May Inhibit a Takeover of Our Company That Stockholders May Consider Favorable Provisions of Nevada law, such as its business combination statute, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. As a result, these provisions could limit the price some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our Officers and Directors Have the Ability to Exercise Significant Influence Over Matters Submitted for Stockholder Approval and Their Interests May Differ From Other Stockholders An entity controlled by one of our executive officers and directors has the ability to appoint a majority of the Board of Directors. Accordingly, our directors and executive officers, whether acting alone or together, may have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our Board for approval, including issuing common and preferred stock, and appointing officers, which could have a material impact on mergers, acquisitions, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these board members may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATION AS A BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY We May Change Our Investment Policies Without Further Shareholder Approval Although we are limited by the Investment Company Act of 1940 with respect to the percentage of our assets that must be invested in qualified investment companies, we are not limited with respect to the minimum standard that any investment company must meet, nor the industries in which those investment companies must operate. We may make investments without shareholder approval and such investments may deviate significantly from our historic operations. Any change in our investment policy or selection of investments could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. Our Investments May Not Generate Sufficient Income to Cover Our Operations We intend to make investments into qualified companies that will provide the greatest overall return on our investment. However, certain of those investments may fail, in which case we will not receive any return on our investment. In addition, our investments may not generate income, either in the immediate future, or at all. As a result, we may have to sell additional stock, or borrow money, to cover our operating expenses. The effect of such actions could cause our stock price to decline or, if we are not successful in raising additional capital, we could cease to continue as a going concern. 13 We are dependent upon key management personnel for our future success, particularly Isaac H. Sutton. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the management. The management, together with other investment professionals, will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, monitor and service our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the management team, particularly Isaac H Sutton, the Chief Executive Officer. The departure of Mr. Sutton could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. We do not maintain a key man life insurance policy on Mr. Sutton. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our future growth effectively. We have a limited operating history. As such, we are subject to the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise, including the lack of experience in managing or operating a business development company. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our investment team’s ability to identify, analyze, invest in and finance companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our management’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. As we grow, we will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in technology-related companies. We compete with a large number of private equity and venture capital funds, other equity and non-equity based investment funds, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and specialty finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Our business model depends upon the development of strong referral relationships with private equity and venture capital funds and investment banking firms. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio and achieve our investment objectives. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and therefore there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of investments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in debt securities, we generally expect to acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. 14 Because most of our investments are not in publicly traded securities, there is uncertainty regarding the value of our investments, which could adversely affect the determination of our net asset value. Our portfolio investments are not generally in publicly traded securities. As a result, the fair value of these securities is not readily determinable. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. The types of factors that the Board of Directors takes into account in providing its fair value recommendation includes, as relevant, the nature and value of any collateral, the portfolio company's ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to valuations of publicly traded companies, comparisons to recent sales of comparable companies, the discounted value of the cash flows of the portfolio company and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. As stated above, our investments are not generally in publicly traded securities. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Also, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We expect that our holdings of equity securities may require several years to appreciate in value, and we can offer no assurance that such appreciation will occur. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the rate at which we make new investments, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. Our business will require a substantial amount of capital, which we may acquire from the following sources: Senior securities and other indebtedness. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as "senior securities," up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets, less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If we issue senior securities, including preferred stock and debt securities, we will be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. If we incur leverage to make investments, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock. If we issue debt securities or preferred stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. In addition, such securities may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that could further restrict our operating flexibility. Our ability to pay dividends or issue additional senior securities would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio was not at least 200%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we would be unable to issue any additional senior securities. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. 15 Common stock. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and that of our stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In certain limited circumstances, pursuant to an SEC staff interpretation, we may also issue shares at a price below net asset value in connection with a transferable rights offering so long as: (1) the offer does not discriminate among shareholders; (2) we use our best efforts to ensure an adequate trading market exists for the rights; and (3) the ratio of the offering does not exceed one new share for each three rights held. If our stock price is less that our net asset value per share, it will be extremely difficult to raise capital through the sale of common stock without obtaining shareholder approval. In the event shareholder approval is not obtained, our ability to raise adequate capital to continue as a going concern will be negatively impacted. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of preferred stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to classify any authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock into one or more classes of preferred stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 3,400,000 shares are currently issued and outstanding. In the event our Board of Directors opts to classify a portion of our unissued shares of preferred stock into a class of preferred stock, those preferred shares could have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. The class rights of any preferred shares we may issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions that may, in the future, be proposed by the Board of Directors and/or the holders of our common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation, or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. A portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds (if we do borrow) and the interest rate on the debt securities in which we invest. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our investment activities. Some of our investments in debt securities are at fixed rates and others at variable rates. We may, but will not be required to, hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To remain entitled to the tax benefits accorded RICs under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we may use debt financing in the future, we may be subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the annual distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for special tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax on all our income. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. 16 We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investments to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Our ability to invest in private companies may be limited in certain circumstances. If we are to maintain our status as a business development company, we must not acquire any assets other than "qualifying assets" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. If we acquire debt or equity securities from an issuer that has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make an investment, these acquired assets cannot be treated as qualifying assets. This result is dictated by the definition of "eligible portfolio company" under the 1940 Act, which in part looks to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. For a more detailed discussion of the definition of an "eligible portfolio company" and the marginable securities requirement, see the section entitled "Regulation as a Business Development Company." Amendments promulgated in 1998 by the Federal Reserve expanded the definition of a marginable security under the Federal Reserve's margin rules to include any non-equity security. Thus, any debt securities issued by any entity are marginable securities under the Federal Reserve's current margin rules. As a result, the staff of the SEC has raised the question to the business development company industry as to whether a private company that has outstanding debt securities would qualify as an "eligible portfolio company" under the 1940 Act. The SEC has recently issued proposed rules to correct the unintended consequence of the Federal Reserve's 1998 margin rule amendments of apparently limiting the investment opportunities of business development companies. In general, the SEC's proposed rules would define an eligible portfolio company as any company that does not have securities listed on a national securities exchange or association. We are currently in the process of reviewing the SEC's proposed rules and assessing their impact, to the extent such proposed rules are subsequently approved by the SEC, on our investment activities. We do not believe that these proposed rules will have a material adverse effect on our operations. If the proposed rule changes to not occur as drafted, our ability to invest in companies presently contemplated could be adversely affected and we may have difficulty in locating suitable “eligible” investments. Provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. 17 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies in the technology-related sector, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt securities that we hold or if the technology-related sector experiences a further downturn. A consequence of this limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax asset diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few issuers. In addition, we intend to concentrate in the technology-related sector and to invest, under normal circumstances, at least 60% of the value of our net assets (including the amount of any borrowings for investment purposes) in technology-related companies. As a result, a further downturn in the technology-related sector could materially adversely affect us. The technology-related sector is subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, decreasing life cycles and periodic downturns. We invest in companies in the technology-related sector, some of which may have relatively short operating histories. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of technology-related companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. Also, the technology-related market is generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. Since mid-2000, there has been substantial excess capacity and a significant slowdown in many industries in the technology-related sector. In addition, this overcapacity, together with a cyclical economic downturn, resulted in substantial decreases in the market capitalization of many technology-related companies. While such valuations have recovered to some extent, we can offer no assurance that such decreases in market capitalizations will not recur, or that any future decreases in technology company valuations will be insubstantial or temporary in nature. Therefore, our portfolio companies may face considerably more risk of loss than companies in other industry sectors. In addition, because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by the technology-related sector have historically decreased over their productive lives. As a result, the average selling prices of products and services offered by our portfolio companies may decrease over time, which could adversely affect their operating results and their ability to meet their obligations under their debt securities, as well as the value of any equity securities, that we may hold. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments in the technology-related companies that we are targeting may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. Although a prospective portfolio company's assets are one component of our analysis when determining whether to provide debt capital, we generally do not base an investment decision primarily on the liquidation value of a company's balance sheet assets. Instead, given the nature of the companies that we invest in, we also review the company's historical and projected cash flows, equity capital and "soft" assets, including intellectual property (patented and non-patented), databases, business relationships (both contractual and non-contractual) and the like. Accordingly, considerably higher levels of overall risk will likely be associated with our portfolio compared with that of a traditional asset-based lender whose security consists primarily of receivables, inventories, equipment and other tangible assets. Interest rates payable by our portfolio companies may not compensate for these additional risks. Specifically, investment in the technology-related companies that we are targeting involves a number of significant risks, including: · these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any value from the liquidation of such collateral; 18 · they typically have limited operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; · because they tend to be privately owned, there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; · they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; and · they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant "managerial assistance" to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as "follow-on" investments, in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We intend to invest primarily in senior debt securities, but may also invest in subordinated debt securities, issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we will not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such companies, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not best serve our interests as debt investors. 19 Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we may do so in the future, to date we have generally not taken controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Many factors relating to the price of our common stock are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of regulated investment companies, business development companies or other financial services companies; · changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to regulated investment companies or business development companies; · actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; · general economic conditions and trends; · loss of a major funding source; or · departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. Our shares may trade at discounts from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term. Shares of business development companies may trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. The possibility that our shares of common stock will trade at a discount from net asset value or at premiums that are unsustainable over the long term are separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. It is not possible to predict whether our shares will trade at, above, or below net asset value. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. 20 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs, and our assumptions. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," and "estimates" and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the assumptions on which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of those assumptions could prove to be inaccurate, and as a result, the forward-looking statements based on those assumptions also could be inaccurate. Important assumptions include our ability to originate new loans and investments, certain margins and levels of profitability and the availability of additional capital. In light of these and other uncertainties, the inclusion of a projection or forward-looking statement in this annual report should not be regarded as a representation by us that our plans and objectives will be achieved. These risks and uncertainties include those described or identified in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this annual report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this annual report. ITEM 