Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on our agreements with our code-share partners. We depend on relationships created by our code-share agreements. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated passenger revenues from our revenue-guarantee code-share agreements with Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and US Airways. Our code-share partners have certain rights to cancel the applicable code-share agreement upon the occurrence of certain events or the giving of appropriate notice, subject to certain conditions. No assurance can be given that one or more of our code-share partners will not serve notice at a later date of their intention to cancel our code-share agreement and potentially reducing our traffic and revenue. The US Airways Code-Share Agreement allows US Airways, subject to certain restrictions, to reduce the combined CRJ fleets utilized under the code-share agreement by one aircraft in any six-month period. The Company has received notice of US Airways' intent to reduce one CRJ-200 in January 2009, one CRJ-200 in July 2009 and one CRJ-200 in January 2010. We anticipate that US Airways will continue to further reduce the number of covered aircraft in accordance with the agreement. In addition, US Airways may eliminate the Dash-8 aircraft upon 180 days prior written notice. Because a majority of our operating revenues from continuing operations are currently generated under revenue-guarantee code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, our operating revenues and net income could be materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements or, alternatively, fly under our own flight designator code, including obtaining the airport facilities and gates necessary to do so. For the year ended September 30, 2008, the US Airways Code-Share Agreement accounted for 48% of our consolidated passenger revenues, the Amended DCA and Expansion DCS with Delta together accounted for 19% of our consolidated passenger revenue and the United Code-Share Agreement accounted for 29% of our consolidated passenger revenues. As of September 30, 2008, we operated 30 ERJ-145 aircraft and seven CRJ-900 aircraft for Delta pursuant to the Amended DCA and Expansion DCS, respectively. Flight operations for Delta are performed by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Freedom Airlines. The Amended DCA provided for the addition of six ERJ-145 aircraft for an initial term of two years. These aircraft are scheduled to be removed from service in March 2009. The parties are currently in disagreement regarding the effectiveness of a notice issued by Mesa to extend the term of these aircraft for an additional one year term at reduced compensation in accordance with the terms of the amendment. Also, pursuant to the Amended DCA, commencing in August 2008, the parties agreed to remove eight ERJ-145 aircraft at a rate of three aircraft per month. The remaining aircraft will be removed from service in May 2017 when the Amended DCA terminates. As discussed below, the Company is currently involved in litigation with Delta regarding the Amended DCA is likely to become involved in litigation with Delta regarding the Expansion DCA. If our code-share partners or other regional carriers experience events that negatively impact their financial strength or operations, our operations also may be negatively impacted. We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of our code-share partners. Any events that negatively impact the financial strength of our code-share partners or have a long-term effect on the use of our code-share partners by airline travelers would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our code-share partners, such partner may seek to reduce, or be unable to make, the payments due to us under their code-share agreement. In addition, in some cases, they may reduce utilization of our aircraft. Although there are certain monthly guaranteed payment amounts, there are no fixed levels of utilization specified in the code-share agreements. If any of our other current or future code-share partners become bankrupt, our code-share agreement with such partner may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be terminated. This and other such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any negative events that occur to other regional carriers and that affect public perception of such carriers generally could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our code-share partners may expand their direct operation of regional jets thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. We depend on major airlines like Delta, United Airlines and US Airways electing to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own regional jets. However, these major airlines possess the financial and other resources to acquire and operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code- 14 share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own regional jets or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. A decision by Delta, United Airlines, or US Airways to phase out our contract-based code-share relationships or to enter into similar agreements with competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to Mesa, our partners have similar code-share agreements with other competing regional airlines. If Delta successfully terminates the Amended DCA or Expansion DCA, we may not be able to meet our immediate financial obligations. Amended DCA On March 28, 2008, Delta notified us of its intent to terminate the Amended DCA among Delta, the Company, and the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Freedom Airlines alleging failure to maintain a specified completion rate with respect to its ERJ-145 Delta Connection flights during three months of the six-month period ended February 2008. The Amended DCA includes, among other arrangements, our agreement to operate up to 34 model ERJ-145 regional jets leased by us and operated utilizing Delta's name. During the second quarter 2007, we reached an agreement with Delta to add six ERJ aircraft for an initial term of two years. These aircraft are scheduled to be removed in March 2009. The parties currently have a disagreement regarding the effectiveness of a notice issued by Mesa to extend the terms of these aircraft for an additional one year term at reduced compensation in accordance with the terms of the amendment. Failure to resolve this issue in the Company's favor could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operation. In fiscal 2008, the Amended DCA accounted for approximately 15.0% of our total revenues for fiscal 2008. Delta seeks to terminate the Amended DCA as a result of Freedom Airlines' alleged failure to maintain a specified completion rate with respect to its ERJ-145 Delta Connection flights prior to April 2008. On April 7, 2008, we filed a complaint against Delta seeking declaratory and injunctive relief and specific performance by Delta of its obligations under the Amended DCA. On May 9, 2008, we filed a motion for a preliminary injunction in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia (the "District Court") against Delta to enjoin its attempted termination of the Amended DCA. A three day evidentiary hearing was concluded on May 29, 2008 with the District Court ruling in our favor and issuing a preliminary injunction against Delta. The preliminary injunction prohibits Delta from terminating the Amended DCA based on Freedom Airlines' completion rate prior to April 2008, pending a final trial at a date to be determined by the District Court. The effect of this ruling is to prohibit Delta from terminating the Amended DCA covering the ERJ-145 aircraft operated by Freedom Airlines, based on Freedom Airlines' completion rate prior to April 2008, pending a final trial at a date to be determined by the District Court. On June 27, 2008, Delta filed a notice of appeal with the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals (the "Court of Appeals") and on July 15, 2008, Delta filed a motion requesting that the appeal be heard on an expedited basis. The Company responded to Delta's motion in accordance with the applicable rules and the Court of Appeals., after reviewing the filings, denied Delta's request. Delta and the Company have fully briefed the issue on appeal and oral arguments in the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals have been scheduled for January 30, 2009 If the District Court or Court of Appeals ultimately rules in favor of Delta and allows the termination of the Amended DCA we believe we will be unable to redeploy the ERJ-145s in a timely manner, or at the lease rates we receive under the Amended DCA in the event of any redeployment of such aircraft. In addition to losing approximately $20 million per month in revenue or approximately $960 million over the next four years), we estimate that we will incur leasing costs, labor and other costs totaling approximately $250 to $300 million over the next four years. As a result, our cash flows from operations and our available working capital will be insufficient to meet these cash requirements. In the absence of obtaining additional capital through equity or debt financings, asset sales, consensual restructuring of debt and lease terms and /or similar measure, we will be unable to meet our financial obligations and may need to seek protection under applicable United States reorganization laws in order to avoid or delay actions by our lessors, creditors and code-share partners, which will have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. Expansion DCA On August 1, 2008 Delta notified the Company of the termination of the Expansion DCA citing an alleged failure to meet certain contractual benchmarks contained in the Expansion DCA. Mesa strongly denies having violated the Expansion DCA and intends to challenge Delta's decision. We believe the airport hub in which the CRJ-900 aircraft are operated and the schedules created by Delta 15 significantly impact our ability to meet the contract performance benchmarks. In particular, we believe the operating environment at New York's JFK airport presents significant challenges to meet the performance requirements. The Company subleased the CRJ-900 aircraft operated pursuant to the Amended DCA from Delta for $1 per month per aircraft and these aircraft have been returned to Delta in connection with this termination with no further financial obligation to Mesa. In the event litigation is filed and Delta ultimately prevails in that litigation, the Company's financial condition may be materially negatively effected. If Delta prevails in its counterclaim against Mesa relating to a memorandum of understanding for the overhaul and repair of certain engines our financial condition or results of operations would be materially adversely affected. On August 6, 2008, Mesa filed a complaint against Delta seeking the return of seven aircraft engines that Delta improperly retained possession of following the termination of an engine maintenance memorandum of understating executed between Mesa and Delta. Delta has claimed its retention of these engines was justified as a means to secure recovery of certain disputed amounts related to the memorandum of understating. The memorandum of understanding does not contain provisions regarding Delta's claims and does not permit Delta's retention of the engines. Delta did not have a legal basis upon which to retain continued unauthorized possession of the engines. On or about August 13, 2008, Delta returned possession of the engines at issue. On August 22, 2008, Delta recorded mechanics' liens on the engines and filed a counterclaim seeking to foreclose on the liens as well as seeking certain payments allegedly related to the memorandum of understanding. Mesa's action filed in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona sought the immediate return of all engines currently in Delta's possession and/or control, forfeiture of all claimed liens, as well as damages related to Delta's improper retention of the engines. On November 12, 2008, the court heard oral arguments on Mesa's motion to dismiss Delta's purported liens and Delta's motion to foreclose on the liens. On November 14, 2008, the court ruled that Delta forfeited its lien claims as a result of its failure to comply with the timelines set out in the Georgia lien statute. The parties' competing claims for money damages are still pending before the court. A judgment in Delta's favor for damages related to its counterclaim could have a material negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to operate our Hawaiian operations profitably is dependent on the price of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of historically high fuel costs or further increases in fuel costs could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. In June 2006, we launched our independent inter-island Hawaiian airline operation named go! and have incurred operating losses since inception. Providing service in Hawaii will require ongoing investment of working capital by Mesa and management attention and focus. Our operating results are significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of aircraft fuel, which in turn are often affected by global events. Fuel prices have increased substantially over the past several years and sharply in the last year, reaching a level in mid-2008 that fundamentally challenges the economics of the airline industry. A relatively small increase in the price of fuel can have a significant aggregate effect on the costs of our go! operations. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and market forces, no assurance can be made that we may be able to increase our fares or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel prices. As a result of fluctuating fuel prices, Mesa started a jet fuel swap program in fiscal 2009. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports, due to adverse weather, or for any other reason, could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We currently operate primarily through hubs in Chicago, Washington DC, Denver, Phoenix, Charlotte, New York, Cincinnati, and Honolulu. Nearly all of our flights will either originate or fly into one of these hubs. Our revenues depend primarily on our completion of flights and secondarily on service factors such as timeliness of departure and arrival. Any interruptions or disruptions could, therefore, severely and adversely affect us. Extreme weather can cause flight disruptions, and during periods of storms or adverse weather, fog, low temperatures, etc., our flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. We operate a significant number of flights to and from airports with particular weather difficulties, including Chicago, Denver, New York/JFK, and Washington, DC. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs, due to adverse weather or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, operations and financial performance. The availability of additional and/or replacement code-share partners is limited and consolidation within the airline industry could have an unknown impact on future operations. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential code-share partners available and may adversely affect our relationships with current code-share partners. There is no assurance that our relationships with our code-share partners will survive in the event that any such code-share partner merges with another airline. 16 If we are unable to successfully restructure certain of our contractual obligations and commitments as described below, our cash flow from operations and available capital will not be sufficient to meet these obligations, which may require that the Company seek protection under applicable reorganization laws. While the Company's cash flows from operations and its available capital have been sufficient to meet its current operating expenses, lease obligations and debt service requirements to date, the Company's future cash flow from operations and available capital may be negatively impacted by: (i) our ability to secure more flexible credit terms from certain of the Company's other key vendors; (ii) reduced cash payments from our code share partners related to disputed items under our agreements; (iii) the $23.2 million in aggregate remaining principal amount of senior convertible notes due 2023, which the Company may be required to repurchase on January 31, 2009 in accordance with the forbearance agreements described below; (iv) the $77.8 million in aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes due 2024, which the Company may be required to repurchase on February 10, 2009; (v) the Company's ability to restructure certain of its aircraft lease obligations and key vendor obligations, which are in turn impacted by the Company's obligations with respect to its 2023 and 2024 notes; and (vi) the results of the Company's ongoing litigation with Delta. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in effecting amended lease terms for its existing aircraft lease obligations and obtaining flexible credit terms from existing vendors and suppliers. Unfavorable events arising with respect to negotiations with key lessors and vendors, the Delta litigation, or the 2023 and/or 2024 notes, could give rise to covenant and payment defaults under the terms of the Company's material operating leases and indebtedness. In the absence of obtaining additional capital through asset sales, consensual restructuring of debt and lease terms and/or similar measures, the Company may be unable to remedy such defaults and may experience additional defaults in the future. The Company's operating leases are subject to termination in the event of default, and the Company's indebtedness may be accelerated in the event of continuing default. Certain lenders could foreclose on Company assets securing their indebtedness. Accordingly, the Company's financial condition could require that the Company seek additional protection under applicable reorganization laws in order to avoid or delay actions by its creditors and lessors which could materially adversely affect the Company's operations and ability to operate as a going concern. If the holders of our 6.25% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2023 exercise their right to require the Company to redeem their notes, our liquidity could be adversely affected or we may issue additional stock, which would dilute existing shareholders. In June 2003, we completed the private placement of senior convertible notes due 2023 (the "2023 Notes"), which resulted in gross proceeds of $100.1 million ($96.9 million net). The 2023 Notes were sold at an issue price of $397.27 per note and are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 39.727 shares per note, which equals a conversion price of $10 per share. Holders of the 2023 Notes may convert their Notes only if: (i) the sale price of our common stock exceeds 110% of the accreted conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding quarter; (ii) prior to June 16, 2018, the trading price for the notes falls below certain thresholds; (iii) the 2023 Notes have been called for redemption; or (iv) specified corporate transactions occur. On May 20, 2008, the Company's board of directors approved separate agreements (referred to as "Forbearance Agreements") reached by the Company with certain of the holders of the 2023 Notes. As previously disclosed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, holders of the 2023 Notes had the right to require the Company to repurchase such 2023 Notes on June 16, 2008 (the "Put") at a price of $397.27 per $1,000 note (the "Put Price") plus any accrued and unpaid cash interest. If all of the holders of the 2023 Notes had exercised this right, the Company would have been required to repurchase the 2023 Notes for approximately $37.8 million in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. Under the terms of these separate Forbearance Agreements, holders holding approximately $77.8 million in aggregate face amount of the 2023 Notes (representing approximately 82% of the aggregate face amount of Notes outstanding) have agreed to forbear from exercising their Put right with respect to 75% in aggregate face amount of 2023 Notes owned by such holders (i.e., $23.2 million of the $37.8 million subject to the Put). In consideration for such agreement, the Company agreed to purchase 25% in aggregate face amount of such holder's Notes at a purchase price equal to 75% of the Put Price and the additional right to require the Company to repurchase such 2023 Notes on January 31, 2009. The put price payable on January 31, 2009 will also be payable in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof, at the Company's election. The Company's aggregate payment obligation with respect to such purchased 2023 Notes was approximately $5.8 million, which was paid on or before May 27, 2008. In consideration for such forbearance, the Company also agreed to issue to such holders two-year warrants to purchase 25,000 shares of common stock for each $1 million in aggregate face amount of 2023 Notes deferred (or an aggregate of approximately 1.46 million shares of common stock). The warrants were valued at $0.26 per share using the Black-Scholes model for an aggregate amount of $0.4 million. The warrants have a per share exercise price of $1.00, contain anti-dilution protection for major corporate events, such as stock splits and stock dividends, and are not exercisable to the extent the exercise thereof would cause the holder to beneficially own greater than 4.99% of the Company's outstanding capital stock. The Company recognized a gain in the third fiscal quarter on the repurchase of the 2023 Notes of $1.5 million, which is included in gain on extinguishment of debt in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. In addition, the Company purchased approximately $7.0 million of the 2023 Notes at no gain or loss. 17 As a result of prior conversions of the 2023 Notes by noteholders, at September 30, 2008, there were approximately $23.2 million in 2023 Notes outstanding. If the holders of these 2023 Notes exercise their right to require the Company to repurchase all of their 2023 Notes on January 31, 2009, the Company will be required to repurchase such 2023 Notes for approximately $23.2 million in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. If Mesa elects to issue shares of its common stock in lieu of cash, it must have sufficient authorized shares to meet such obligation. No assurance can be given that the Company will have sufficient shares of common stock. In addition, if Mesa elects to issue additional stock to meet this purchase obligation, this issuance would dilute existing shareholders. If the holders of our 3.625% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2024 exercise their right to require the Company to redeem their notes, our liquidity could be materially adversely affected or we may issue additional stock, which would dilute existing shareholders. In February 2004, the Company completed the private placement of senior convertible notes due 2024 (the "2024 Notes"), which resulted in gross proceeds of $100.0 million ($97.0 million net). Cash interest is payable on the 2024 Notes at the rate of 2.115% per year on the aggregate amount due at maturity, payable semiannually until February 10, 2009. After that date, the Company will not pay cash interest on the 2024 Notes prior to maturity, and they will begin accruing original issue discount at a rate of 3.625% until maturity. On February 10, 2024, the maturity date of the 2024 Notes, the principal amount of each note will be $1,000. The aggregate amount due at maturity, including interest accrued from February 10, 2009, will be $171.4 million. On February 10, 2009, the holders of the 2024 Notes may require the Company to repurchase their 2024 Notes ("2024 Put Right") at a price of $583.40 per $1,000 note (the "2024 Put Price") plus accrued and unpaid cash interest, resulting in an aggregate principal amount due of approximately $77.8 million. The Company may pay the 2024 Put Price of the 2024 Notes in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. The Company may not have sufficient cash reserves to pay the holders of the 2024 Notes that exercise their 2024 Put Right on February 10, 2009. If the Company elects to issue additional shares of common stock to meet its repurchase obligations, this issuance would result in substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Our Current Stock Price Creates a NASDAQ Delisting Possibility Our Common Stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and may be delisted, which could adversely affect our business and relations with employees, customers, and others. Previously, we have received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market that our stock price (technically, the closing bid price) has failed to maintain the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for the 30 consecutive business days preceding such notice. Previously, we have been given until March 23, 2009 to achieve compliance with that rule by having the bid price of our stock close at $1.00 or more for at least ten consecutive trading days. If compliance with that rule was not demonstrated by March 23, 2009, we could appeal NASDAQ's determination to delist our securities to a NASDAQ panel or we may apply to transfer our securities to the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our application is approved, we will be afforded an additional 180 day compliance period. Recently, NASDAQ has further extended this compliance date to late June 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve compliance with this minimum bid price rule by NASDAQ's required deadline; that we would be granted an additional 180 day compliance period; or that we would be able to achieve compliance with the minimum bid price rule even if granted the additional compliance period. While there are many actions that may be taken to attempt to increase the price of our stock, two of the possibilities are a reverse stock split and a stock repurchase. At this time, we have limited capital resources available for any stock repurchase. Any such actions (even if successful) may have adverse effects on us, such as adverse reaction from employees, investors and financial markets in general, adverse publicity, and adverse reactions from customers. There are other continued listing requirements for listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet these listing requirements. Should our stock be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may apply to have our stock traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board. There can be no assurance that our common stock would be timely admitted for trading on that market. This alternative may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential shareholders to buy and sell shares of our stock and could further depress the price of our stock. If we experience a lack of labor availability or strikes, it could result in a decrease of revenues due to the cancellation of flights. The operation of our business is significantly dependent on the availability of qualified employees, including, specifically, flight crews, mechanics and avionics specialists. Historically, regional airlines have periodically experienced high pilot turnover as a result of air carriers operating larger aircraft hiring their commercial pilots. Further, the addition of aircraft, especially new aircraft types, or transferring of aircraft between operating entities can result in pilots upgrading or transitioning between aircraft types and becoming unavailable for duty during the required extensive training periods. During the first and second quarters of fiscal 2008, the Company 18 experienced higher than average turnover as a result of hirings by major carriers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an adequate supply of qualified personnel or that labor expenses will not increase. At September 30, 2008, we had approximately 4,113 employees, approximately 2,485 of whom are members of two labor unions, including the Air Line Pilots Association, International ("ALPA") and the Association of Flight Attendants ("AFA"). Our collective bargaining agreement with the ALPA became amendable in September 2007 and we recently reached a tentative agreement that is subject to a ratification vote by our pilots. Our collective bargaining agreement with the AFA became amendable in June 2006 and we are in mediated negotiations. The inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with existing unions as agreements become amendable or with new unions could result in work stoppages by the affected workers, lost revenues resulting from the cancellation of flights and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. We cannot predict which, if any, other employee groups may seek union representation or the outcome or the terms of any future collective bargaining agreement and therefore the effect, if any, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If negotiations with unions over collective bargaining agreements prove to be unsuccessful, following specified "cooling off" periods, the unions may initiate a work action, including a strike, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will cause our earnings to decrease. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to fixed percentages, an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments under our code-share agreements if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. If new airline regulations are passed or are imposed upon our operations, we may incur increased operating costs and experience a decrease in earnings. Laws and regulations, such as those described below, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of our operations by imposing additional requirements or restrictions on our operations. We cannot predict what laws and regulations will be adopted or what changes to air transportation agreements will be effected, if any, or how they will affect us, and there can be no assurance that laws or regulations currently proposed or enacted in the future will not increase our operating expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As an interstate air carrier, we are subject to the economic jurisdiction, regulation and continuing air carrier fitness requirements of the Department of Transportation ("DOT"), which include required levels of financial, managerial and regulatory fitness. The DOT is authorized to establish consumer protection regulations to prevent unfair methods of competition and deceptive practices, to prohibit certain pricing practices, to inspect a carrier's books, properties and records, to mandate conditions of carriage and to suspend an air carrier's fitness to operate. The DOT also has the power to bring proceedings for the enforcement of air carrier economic regulations, including the assessment of civil penalties, and to seek criminal sanctions. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") with respect to our aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communication, training, weather observation, flight personnel and other matters affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain an operating certificate, which is subject to suspension or revocation for cause, and provides for regular inspections. The FAA also has the power to bring proceedings for the enforcement of federal aviation regulations including the assessment of civil penalties and to seek criminal sanctions. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of, or maintenance on, all or any of our turboprops or regional jets, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. 19 Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a significant effect on the airline industry. For example, the European Commission is seeking to impose an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union. Although we do not operate in the European Union, future laws or regulations such as this emissions trading scheme or other United States or foreign governmental actions applicable to our areas of operation may adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer or Canadair regional jets, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our regional jets at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. lf additional security and safety measures regulations are adopted, we may incur increased operating costs and experience a decrease in earnings. Congress has adopted increased safety and security measures designed to increase airline passenger security and protect against terrorist acts. Such measures have resulted in additional operating costs to the airline industry. In addition, a report by the Aviation Safety Commission, a body established by Congress, recommends the adoption of further measures aimed at improving the safety and security of air travel. We cannot forecast what additional security and safety requirements may be imposed on our operations in the future or the costs or revenue impact that would be associated with complying with such requirements, although such costs and revenue impact could be significant. To the extent that the costs of complying with any additional safety and security measures are not reimbursed by our code-share partners, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our operating costs increase as our aircraft fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. As our fleet of aircraft age, the cost of maintaining such aircraft, if not replaced, will likely increase. There can be no assurance that costs of maintenance, including costs to comply with aging aircraft requirements, will not materially increase in the future. Any material increase in such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because many aircraft components are required to be replaced after specified numbers of flight hours or take-off and landing cycles, and because new aviation technology may be required to be retrofitted, the cost to maintain aging aircraft will generally exceed the cost to maintain newer aircraft. We believe that the cost to maintain our aircraft in the long-term will be consistent with industry experience for these aircraft types and ages used by comparable airlines. We believe that our aircraft are mechanically reliable based on the percentage of scheduled flights completed and as of September 30, 2008 the average age of our fleet, excluding Beechcraft 1900D's, is 6.6 years. However, there can be no assurance that such aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. Furthermore, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our fleet expansion program has required a significant increase in our leverage. The airline business is very capital intensive and we are highly leveraged. For the year ended September 30, 2008, our debt service payments, including principal and interest, totaled $97.0 million and our aircraft lease payments totaled $227.0 million. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft and ground facilities, which aggregated approximately $1.9 billion at September 30, 2008. As of September 30, 2008, our potential growth strategy involves the acquisition of ten more CRJ-700 regional jets. As of September 30, 2008, we had permanently financed all aircraft delivered under our agreement with Bombardier. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain financing for the ten CRJ-700 future aircraft deliveries or find suitable used CRJ-700. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft necessary for our expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, the lender/lessor has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and, in the case of large creditors, the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. If we incur problems with any of our third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services to facilitate our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including aircraft maintenance, ground facilities, baggage handling and personnel training. It is 20 likely that similar agreements will be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. All of these agreements are subject to termination after notice. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk of loss and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft. To the extent a decrease in air travelers is associated with our operations not covered by our code-share agreements, such a decrease could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become involved in any material litigation or any existing litigation is concluded in a manner adverse to us, our earnings may decline. We are, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's time, attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future litigation. On March 28, 2008 Delta notified the Company of its intent to terminate the Amended DCA among Delta, the Company, and the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Freedom Airlines, alleging failure to maintain a specified completion rate with respect to its ERJ-145 Delta Connection flights during three months of the six-month period ended February 2008. Following Delta's termination notification, the Company filed a complaint on April 7, 2008 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia (the "District Court") seeking declaratory and injunctive relief. An evidentiary hearing was conducted during the three day period ended May 29, 2008. Following the hearing, the District Court ruled in the Company's favor and issued a preliminary injunction against Delta. The effect of this ruling is to prohibit Delta from terminating the Amended DCA covering the ERJ-145 aircraft operated by Freedom Airlines, based on Freedom Airlines' completion rate prior to April 2008, pending a final trial at a date to be determined by the District Court. On June 27, 2008, Delta filed a notice of appeal with the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals (the "Court of Appeals") and on July 15, 2008 Delta filed a motion requesting that the appeal be heard on an expedited basis. The Company has responded to Delta's motion in accordance with the applicable rules and the Court of Appeals, after reviewing the filings, denied Delta's request. Delta and the Company have fully briefed the issues on appeal and oral arguments in the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals have been scheduled for January 26, 2009. On August 1, 2008, Delta notified the Company of the termination of the Expansion DCA citing an alleged failure to meet certain contractual benchmarks contained in the Expansion DCA. Mesa has placed Delta on notice that it disputes the basis for Delta's actions and that it intends to seek all remedies available at law to challenge Delta's decision. On August 6, 2008, Mesa filed a complaint against Delta seeking the return of seven aircraft engines that Delta improperly retained possession of following the termination of an engine maintenance memorandum of understating executed between Mesa and Delta. Delta claimed its retention of these engines was justified as a means to secure recovery of certain disputed amounts related to the memorandum of understating. The memorandum of understanding does not contain provisions regarding Delta's claims and does not permit Delta's retention of the engines. Delta did not have a legal basis upon which to retain continued unauthorized possession of the engines. On or about August 13, 2008, Delta returned possession of the engines at issue. On August 22, 2008, Delta recorded mechanics' liens on the engines and filed a counterclaim seeking to foreclose on the liens as well as seeking certain payments allegedly related to the memorandum of understanding. Mesa's action filed in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona sought the immediate return of all engines currently in Delta's possession and/or control, forfeiture of all claimed liens, as well as damages related to Delta's improper retention of the engines. On November 12, 2008, the court heard oral arguments on Mesa's motion to dismiss Delta's purported liens and Delta's motion to foreclose on the liens. On November 14, 2008, the court ruled that Delta forfeited its lien claims as a result of its failure to comply with the timelines set out in the Georgia lien statute. The parties' competing claims for money damages are still pending before the court. A judgment in Delta's favor for damages related to its counterclaim could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 20, 2008, Mesa filed a complaint against Mokulele Air Group, Inc. ("Mokulele") alleging claims for breach of contract related to certain amounts owed to the Company by Mokulele under the code-share agreement dated February 7, 2007. 21 Mesa's complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona. On November 4, 2008, Mokulele filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii alleging claims for breach of the code-share agreement, attempted monopolization in violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and unfair competition under Hawaii statutes. On November 7, 2008, Mesa amended its complaint filed in the District Court of Arizona to add claims for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of an open account, unjust enrichment, coercion, trademark infringement in violation of the Hawaii and Arizona statutes and the federal Lanham Act, misappropriation of trade secrets, deceptive trade practices and unfair competition. This litigation is in the initial stages and the Company strongly denies having violated any statutory or common law duties owed to Mokulele. We are also involved in various legal proceedings and FAA civil action proceedings that the Company does not believe will have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations, although no assurance can be given to the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. Adverse rulings in any of these matters could have a negative impact on our financial performance and in some cases could have a material adverse impact on our business financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our business would be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. We have employment agreements with certain executive officers, but it is possible that members of executive management may leave us. Departures by our executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive. We require large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other personnel. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, particularly with respect to pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have faced considerable turnover of our employees. Regional airline pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians often leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and better benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to carry out our expansion plans or replace departing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our expansion plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. We may be unable to profitably operate our Hawaiian airline, which could negatively impact our business and operations. In June 2006, we launched our independent inter-island Hawaiian airline operation named go! and have incurred operating losses since inception. Providing service in Hawaii will require ongoing investment of working capital by Mesa and management attention and focus. Further, in light of the costs and risks associated with operating an independent low fare regional jet airline, we may be unable to operate the Hawaiian airline profitably, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results under our revenue-guarantee contracts offer no meaningful guidance with respect to our future performance in running an independent airline because we have not previously operated as an independent regional jet carrier in Hawaii. We are operating under a relatively new brand that initially has limited market recognition. Future performance will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: establish a brand that is attractive to our target customers; maintain adequate controls over our expenses; monitor and manage operational and financial risks; secure favorable terms with airports, suppliers and other contractors; 22 maintain the safety and security of our operations; attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and react to responses from competitors who are more established in the Hawaiian markets. If we are unable to successfully place excess aircraft it may adversely affect our operation. We depend on our code-share partners and on the success of our other ventures to maintain our aircraft in revenue-generating operations. Currently, our excess aircraft include 4 ERJ-145s as a result of scheduled reductions under the Amended DCA and 20 Beech 1900D aircraft as a result of the Air Midwest shut down. There are several scenarios that could result in an increase in number of excess aircraft. If our code-share partners terminate their code-share agreements, or exercise early termination provisions contained in certain code-share agreements, then the Company would face the challenge of generating ongoing revenue for these excess aircraft. If the aircraft subleased to Kunpeng Airlines or operated by go! in Hawaii are returned for any reason, then it would also cause an increase in the number of excess aircraft. In addition, the Company is currently involved in a dispute with Delta over the effectiveness of a notice issued by the Company extending the term covering 6 ERJ-145 aircraft; without the 12-month extension these aircraft are set to exit Delta Connection service in March of 2009. An increase in excess aircraft could result in our operating revenues and net income being materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements. Risks Related to Our Joint Venture in China The ongoing losses of Kunpeng and our inability to timely sell our interests in this joint venture could negatively impact our operations and profitability. On December 22, 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ping Shan, entered into a joint venture agreement (the "Joint Venture Agreement") with Shan Yue SRL ("Shan Yue") and Shenzhen Airlines ("Shenzhen"), pursuant to which the parties agreed to form Kunpeng, an equity joint venture company organized under the laws of China. Ping Shan holds a 25% share of the registered capital of Kunpeng. Additionally, Shan Yue, a Barbados society with restricted liability, holds 24% of the registered capital of Kunpeng. Shan Yue holds 5% of the 24% interest in Kunpeng for the exclusive benefit of an unaffiliated third party. Wilmington Trust Company holds 100% of the outstanding equity of Shan Yue as trustee of Shan Yue Trust, a Delaware statutory trust. We are the sole beneficiary of Shan Yue Trust. Our net ownership interest in Kunpeng is 44%. On September 28, 2007, Kunpeng commenced common carrier passenger service. As of September 30, 2008, Kunpeng operated five 50-seat CRJ 200 aircraft on regional routes flying out of a hub in Xian, China. Kunpeng has incurred losses since its inception and is expected to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As a result, on June 25, 2008, we entered into a letter of intent ("LOI") with Shenzhen to sell all of our equity interest in Kunpeng to Shenzhen. Negotiations with Shenzhen are ongoing and no assurance can be given that the LOI will result in a sale of our equity interest in Kunpeng to Shenzhen, or that, if such a sale were to occur, that it will be on terms acceptable to the Company. Under the proposed terms of the LOI, Mesa will receive net proceeds of approximately $4.8 million for our equity interest in Kunpeng. In addition, Shenzhen will cause Kunpeng to pay certain amounts for back due aircraft rental payments. In addition, under the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement, Ping Shan and Shan Yue agreed to, among other things, assist Kunpeng in securing aircraft from foreign suppliers and, as of the date of this report, the Company has the contractual right to deliver up to 20 CRJ-200s to the joint venture. Kunpeng has informed the Company that it no longer plans to accept deliveries of additional 50-seat regional jets from Mesa. If we became involved in a dispute with Shenzhen Airlines related to the Joint Venture Agreement, we could experience difficulties in initiating litigation in a United States court, enforcing judgments of a United States court or bringing original actions in China. The Joint Venture Agreement is governed by the laws of China. As a result, it may not be possible to enforce our rights under the Joint Venture Agreement through litigation in a United States court in the event of a dispute arising under the Joint Venture Agreement. Moreover, even if we were able to bring litigation in a United States court, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts. Additionally, although China's legal system is continually 23 evolving, we can give no assurance that we would be able to bring an original action before a court in China, or, if we were able to do so, that a court in China would render a fair and impartial verdict. We face significant risks if the Chinese government changes its policies, laws, regulations, tax structure or its current interpretations of its laws, rules and regulations relating to Kunpeng's operations in China. The Joint Venture Agreement is governed by the laws of China and Kunpeng's operations are located solely in China. Consequently, Kunpeng's results of operations, financial state of affairs and future growth are, to a significant degree, subject to China's economic, political and legal development and related uncertainties. Kunpeng's operations and results could be materially affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation of laws or regulations; confiscatory taxation; changes in employment restrictions; restrictions on imports and sources of supply; import duties; corruption; currency revaluation; and the expropriation of private enterprise. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activities and greater economic decentralization. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue its present policies that encourage foreign investment and operations in China, or if these policies are either not successful or are significantly altered in the future, then Kunpeng's business could be adversely affected. Kunpeng could even be subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of our investment in Kunpeng. Following the Chinese government's policy of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through increased tax collection. Continued efforts to increase tax revenues could result in increased taxation expenses being incurred by Kunpeng. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation, the inadequate development of infrastructure and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation and communications. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on Kunpeng's business results of operations and the return we could derive from this investment. Chinese laws and regulations governing Kunpeng's current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on Kunpeng's business. China's legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing Kunpeng's business, equity ownership, or the enforcement and performance of Kunpeng's arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on Kunpeng's business. If the relevant authorities find Kunpeng in violation of Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: levying fines; 24 revoking Kunpeng's business and other licenses; requiring that Kunpeng restructure its ownership or operations; and requiring that Kunpeng discontinue any portion or all of its business. Kunpeng's labor costs are likely to increase as a result of changes in Chinese labor laws. The Chinese labor market recently experienced an increase in the cost of labor. Recent changes in Chinese labor laws that became effective January 1, 2008 are likely to increase costs further and impose restrictions on Kunpeng's relationship with its employees. There can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change further or that their interpretation and implementation will vary, which may have a material adverse effect upon Kunpeng's business, financial condition and results of operations. Whether Kunpeng will receive preferential tax treatment under Chinese law is currently unclear. If Kunpeng does not receive such preferential tax treatment, its profitability may be negatively impacted. Prior to the adoption of the Chinese Enterprise Income Tax Law on March 16, 2007 (the "EIT Law"), Chinese income tax law provided that enterprises such as Kunpeng were entitled to receive an exemption from the entire central government income tax for the two years beginning with its first profitable year and receive a 50% reduced income tax in the third through fifth years. Kunpeng's business license was issued after adoption of the EIT Law. Accordingly, Chinese tax authorities may conclude that Kunpeng is not entitled to such preferential tax treatment. The full tax exemption for the enterprise income tax expired on December 31, 2005 and the one-half reduction on the enterprise profit tax to 13.5% will expire on December 31, 2008. Regardless of whether Kunpeng is granted preferential tax treatment by China's tax authorities, after such tax holidays, Kunpeng's profits will be subject to the full tax rate of 25%, effective as of January 1, 2008 in accordance with the EIT Law passed in 2007. Under the EIT Law, a uniform tax rate of 25% has been adopted for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and several tax incentives enjoyed by foreign-invested enterprises have been cancelled. However, for foreign-invested enterprises established before the promulgation of the EIT Law, a five-year transition period is provided during which reduced rates will apply but gradually be phased out. Since the Chinese government has not announced implementation measures for the transitional policy with regards to such preferential tax rates, we cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of the new tax law to Kunpeng at this time. Moreover, because Kunpeng's business license was issued after promulgation of the EIT Law, we can give no assurance that Chinese tax authorities will grant Kunpeng preferential tax treatment. Further, any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Kunpeng or other adverse tax treatments would have a material adverse effect on Kunpeng's results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in exchange rates of the Renminbi, or RMB, could adversely affect the value of and dividends, if any, payable on shares of Kunpeng's registered capital or otherwise impact our operations and profitability. Since (i) Kunpeng's income and profit are mainly denominated in the Chinese Renminbi, and (ii) the payment of dividends, if any, by Kunpeng will be in Renminbi, any exchange fluctuation of the Renminbi against other foreign currencies would adversely affect the value of our equity investment in Kunpeng and dividends payable to us by Kunpeng, in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert Renminbi we receive as a profit distribution from Kunpeng, if the United States Dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the United States Dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Conversely, if we decide to convert our United States. Dollars into Renminbi for the purpose of making additional investment in Kunpeng and the Renminbi appreciates against the United States Dollar, the Renminbi equivalent of the United States Dollar we convert would be reduced. As of September 30, 2008, our outstanding obligation to make additional capital contributions to Kunpeng under the Joint Venture Agreement had an aggregate fair value of approximately $28.6 million (or approximately 196,000,000 Renminibi). The potential increase in the fair value of this obligation resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $2.87 million at September 30, 2008. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal 25 accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry If competition in the airline industry increases, we may experience a decline in revenue. Increased competition in the airline industry as well as competitive pressure on our code-share partners or in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The airline industry is highly competitive. The earnings of many of the airlines have historically been volatile. The airline industry is susceptible to price discounting, which involves the offering of discount or promotional fares to passengers. Any such fares offered by one airline are normally matched by competing airlines, which may result in lower revenue per passenger, i.e., lower yields, without a corresponding increase in traffic levels. Also, in recent years several new carriers have entered the industry, typically with low cost structures. In some cases, new entrants have initiated or triggered price discounting. The entry of additional new major or regional carriers in any of our markets, as well as increased competition from or the introduction of new services by established carriers, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on our code-share agreements with our major airline partners for the majority of our revenue means that we must rely on the ability of our code-share partners to adequately promote their respective services and to maintain their respective market share. Competitive pressures by low-fare carriers and price discounting among major airlines could have a material adverse effect on our code-share partners and therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of operations in the air travel business historically fluctuate in response to general economic conditions. The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions that affect business and leisure travel and is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as political instability, regional hostilities, economic recession, fuel price increases, inflation, adverse weather conditions or other adverse occurrences that result in a decline in air travel. Any event that results in decreased travel or increased competition among airlines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from ground and sea transportation alternatives. Video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel. The airline industry is heavily regulated. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business, to the extent such costs are not reimbursed by our code-share partners. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. 26 Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. If adopted, these measures could have had the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA has imposed more stringent security procedures on airlines and imposed security taxes on each ticket sold. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and add increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our code-share partners is a significant source of revenue, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents might deter acquisition bids for us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that, among other things: authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock ranking senior to our common stock without any action on the part of the shareholders; establish advance notice procedures for shareholder proposals, including nominations of directors, to be considered at shareholders' meetings; authorize a majority of our board of directors, in certain circumstances, to fill vacancies on the board resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or from vacancies; restrict the ability of shareholders to modify the number of authorized directors; and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, Section 78.438 of the Nevada general corporation law prohibits us from entering into some business combinations with interested shareholders without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to fluctuate, including: our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates; material announcements by us or our competitors; public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock following the date of this report; governmental regulatory action; or adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. The price of our common stock could be negatively impacted if we use shares of our common stock to satisfy our obligation to repurchase our 2023 Notes on January 31, 2009 and our 2024 Notes on February 10, 2009. 27 Pursuant to agreements with certain holders (the "2023 Holders") of our 2023 Notes, the 2023 Holders have the right to require us to repurchase their 2023 Notes on January 31, 2009 at a price of $397.27 per $1,000 in principal amount of 2023 Notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest. If the 2023 Holders exercise their put rights with respect to all of their 2023 Notes, the Company will be required to repurchase such 2023 Notes for approximately $23.2 million in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. Pursuant to the indenture governing our 2024 Notes, the holders of our 2024 Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their 2024 Notes on February 10, 2009 at a price of $583.40 per $1,000 in principal amount of 2024 Notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest. If the holders of our 2024 Notes exercise their put rights with respect to all of their 2024 Notes, the Company will be required to repurchase such 2024 Notes for approximately $77.8 million in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. We intend to use shares of common stock to satisfy our repurchase obligations related to the 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes. As of September 30, 2008, we had 26,773,479 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. Assuming we satisfy the conditions to using common stock to repurchase the 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes, and that the repurchase price is $0.26 per share of common stock, if all of the holders of 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes tender all of their notes for repurchase, we will issue approximately 89,820,769 and 299,230,769 shares of common stock to satisfy our repurchase obligations related to the 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes, respectively. Sales in the public market of the common stock issuable in satisfaction of our repurchase obligations related to the 2023 Notes and/or 2024 Notes could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Risk Related to Utilization of NOL Carry Forwards. Periodically the Company conducts a valuation of the net deferred tax assets arising principally from NOL carry forwards. As a result of the valuation, the Company maintains an allowance against the net deferred tax asset of $12.2 million at September 30, 2008. Internal Revenue Code Section 382 rules apply to limit a corporation's ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards once the corporation experiences an ownership change as defined in the rules of Section 382. Generally, an ownership change occurs when, within a span of 36 months there is an increase in the stock ownership by one or more shareholders of more than 50 percentage points. If the Company should incur a future ownership change or significant equity event in the future, the Company may be limited to an annual limitation on the use of its net operating loss carryforwards. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 