Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on our agreements with our code-share partners. We depend on relationships created by our code-share agreements. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated passenger revenues from our revenue-guarantee code-share agreements with Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and US Airways. Our code-share partners have certain rights to cancel the applicable code-share agreement upon the occurrence of certain events or the giving of appropriate notice, subject to certain conditions. No assurance can be given that one or more of our code-share partners will not serve notice at a later date of their intention to cancel our code-sharing agreement, forcing us to stop selling those routes with the applicable partner’s code and potentially reducing our traffic and revenue. Our code-share agreement with US Airways allows US Airways, subject to certain restrictions, to reduce the combined CRJ fleets utilized under the code-share agreement by one aircraft in any six-month period, of which five have been eliminated as of September 2007. US Airways has notified the Company of its intent to reduce the maximum number of CRJs in 2008. US Airways has used this provision to reduce the number of aircraft covered by the code-share agreement and we anticipate they will continue to further reduce the number of covered aircraft in accordance with the agreement. In addition, US Airways may eliminate the Dash-8 aircraft upon 180 days prior written notice. As of September 30, 2007, we operated 36 ERJ-145 aircraft for Delta pursuant to two code-sharing agreements. Flight operations for Delta are performed by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Freedom Airlines. As part of Delta’s bankruptcy, we reached an agreement with Delta for an amendment to and assumption of our existing code-sharing agreement (“Amended DCA”), as well as for a new code-sharing agreement (“Expansion DCA”). 14 Table of Contents Under the Amended DCA, six ERJ-145 aircraft will remain in service for up to three years, eight ERJ-145 aircraft will be removed at a rate of three aircraft per month, commencing in August 2008, and the remaining aircraft will be removed from service in May 2017 when the agreement terminates. Because a majority of our operating revenues from continuing operations are currently generated under revenue-guarantee code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, our operating revenues and net income could be materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements or, alternatively, fly under our own flight designator code, including obtaining the airport facilities and gates necessary to do so. For the year ended September 30, 2007, our US Airways revenue-guarantee code-share agreement accounted for 44.0% of our consolidated passenger revenues, our Delta code-share agreement accounted for 19.0% of our consolidated passenger revenue and our United code-share agreement accounted for 35.1% of our consolidated passenger revenues. If our code-share partners or other regional carriers experience events that negatively impact their financial strength or operations, our operations also may be negatively impacted. We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of our code-share partners. Any events that negatively impact the financial strength of our code-share partners or have a long-term effect on the use of our code-share partners by airline travelers would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our code-share partners, such partner may seek to reduce, or be unable to make, the payments due to us under their code-share agreement. In addition, they may reduce utilization of our aircraft. Although there are certain monthly guaranteed payment amounts, there are no minimum levels of utilization specified in the code-share agreements. If any of our other current or future code-share partners become bankrupt, our code-share agreement with such partner may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be terminated. This and other such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any negative events that occur to other regional carriers and that affect public perception of such carriers generally could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our code-share partners may expand their direct operation of regional jets thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. We depend on major airlines like Delta, United Airlines and US Airways electing to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own regional jets. However, these major airlines possess the resources to acquire and operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own regional jets or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. A decision by Delta, United Airlines, or US Airways to phase out our contract-based code-share relationships or to enter into similar agreements with competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to Mesa, our partners have similar code-share agreements with other competing regional airlines. If the holders of our 6.25% Senior Convertible Notes Due 2023 exercise their right to require the Company to redeem their notes, our liquidity could be adversely affected or we may issue additional stock, which would dilute existing stockholders. In June 2003, we completed the private placement of senior convertible notes due 2023 (the “Notes”), which resulted in gross proceeds of $100.1 million ($96.9 million net). The Notes were sold at an issue price of $397.27 per note and are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 39.727 shares per note, which equals a conversion price of $10 per share. Holders of the Notes may convert their Notes only if: (i) the sale price of our common stock exceeds 110% of the accreted conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding quarter; (ii) prior to June 16, 2018, the trading price for the notes falls below certain thresholds; (iii) the Notes have been called for redemption; or (iv) specified corporate transactions occur. The holders of the Notes may require the Company to repurchase the Notes on June 16, 2008 at a price of $397.27 per $1,000 note plus accrued and unpaid cash interest. If the holders of these Notes exercise their right to 15 Table of Contents require the Company to repurchase their Notes on June 16, 2008, the Company will be required, at its election, to repurchase such Notes with cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. As a result of prior conversions of the Notes by noteholders, at September 30, 2007, there were approximately $37.8 million in Notes outstanding. If the holders of these Notes exercise their right to require the Company to repurchase all of the Notes on June 16, 2008, the Company will be required to repurchase such Notes for approximately $37.8 million in cash, common stock, or a combination thereof. If Mesa elects to issue shares of its common stock in lieu of cash, such shares must be issued pursuant to an effective registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to timely register shares of common stock. The failure to do so would be a breach of the terms of the indenture covering the Notes. In addition, if Mesa elects to issues additional stock to meet this purchase obligation, this issuance would dilute existing stockholders. If we experience a lack of labor availability or strikes, it could result in a decrease of revenues due to the cancellation of flights. The operation of our business is significantly dependent on the availability of qualified employees, including, specifically, flight crews, mechanics and avionics specialists. Historically, regional airlines have periodically experienced high pilot turnover as a result of air carriers operating larger aircraft hiring their commercial pilots. Further, the addition of aircraft, especially new aircraft types, or transferring of aircraft between operating entities can result in pilots upgrading between aircraft types and becoming unavailable for duty during the required extensive training periods. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an adequate supply of qualified personnel or that labor expenses will not increase. At September 30, 2007, we had approximately 4,800 employees, approximately 2,700 of whom are members of two labor unions, including ALPA and the AFA. Our collective bargaining agreement with ALPA became amendable in September 2007 and we are in the early stages of negotiations with respect to such agreement. Our collective bargaining agreement with the AFA became amendable in June 2006 and we are in mediated negotiations. The inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with existing unions as agreements become amendable or with new unions could result in work stoppages by the affected workers, lost revenues resulting from the cancellation of flights and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. We cannot predict which, if any, other employee groups may seek union representation or the outcome or the terms of any future collective bargaining agreement and therefore the effect, if any, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If negotiations with unions over collective bargaining agreements prove to be unsuccessful, following specified “cooling off” periods, the unions may initiate a work action, including a strike, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently experiencing increased pilot turnover which at times is a significant issue among regional carriers when major carriers are hiring experienced commercial pilots away from regional carriers. The addition of aircraft, especially new aircraft types or transferring of aircraft between operating entities, can result in pilots upgrading between aircraft types and becoming unavailable for duty during the extensive training periods required. No assurances can be made that pilot turnover and unavailability will not be a significant problem in the future, particularly if major carriers expand their operations. Similarly, there can be no assurance that sufficient numbers of new pilots will be available to support any future growth. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will cause our earnings to decrease. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments under our code-share agreements if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. 16 Table of Contents If new airline regulations are passed or are imposed upon our operations, we may incur increased operating costs and experience a decrease in earnings. Laws and regulations, such as those described below, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of our operations by imposing additional requirements or restrictions on our operations. We cannot predict what laws and regulations will be adopted or what changes to air transportation agreements will be effected, if any, or how they will affect us, and there can be no assurance that laws or regulations currently proposed or enacted in the future will not increase our operating expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As an interstate air carrier, we are subject to the economic jurisdiction, regulation and continuing air carrier fitness requirements of the DOT, which include required levels of financial, managerial and regulatory fitness. The DOT is authorized to establish consumer protection regulations to prevent unfair methods of competition and deceptive practices, to prohibit certain pricing practices, to inspect a carrier’s books, properties and records, to mandate conditions of carriage and to suspend an air carrier’s fitness to operate. The DOT also has the power to bring proceedings for the enforcement of air carrier economic regulations, including the assessment of civil penalties, and to seek criminal sanctions. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to our aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communication, training, weather observation, flight personnel and other matters affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain an operating certificate, which is subject to suspension or revocation for cause, and provides for regular inspections. The FAA also has the power to bring proceedings for the enforcement of Federal Aviation Regulations including the assessment of civil penalties and to seek criminal sanctions. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of, or maintenance on, all or any of our turboprops or regional jets, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. Recently, proposals to address congestion at certain airports or in certain airspace, particularly in the Northeast U.S., have included concepts such as “congestion pricing” or other alternatives that could impose a significant cost on the airlines operating in those airports or airspace. Furthermore, events related to extreme weather delays in late 2006 and early 2007 have caused Congress and the DOT to consider proposals related to airlines’ handling of lengthy flight delays during extreme weather conditions. If adopted, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. To the extent these costs are not absorbed by our code share partners, our revenues and results of operations could similarly be materially adversely affected. Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a significant effect on the airline industry. For example, the European Commission is seeking to impose an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union. Although we do not operate in the European Union, future laws or regulations such as this emissions trading scheme or other U.S. or foreign governmental actions applicable to our areas of operation may adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer or Canadair regional jets, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our regional jets at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. 17 Table of Contents lf additional security and safety measures regulations are adopted, we may incur increased operating costs and experience a decrease in earnings. Congress has adopted increased safety and security measures designed to increase airline passenger security and protect against terrorist acts. Such measures have resulted in additional operating costs to the airline industry. The Aviation Safety Commission’s report recommends the adoption of further measures aimed at improving the safety and security of air travel. We cannot forecast what additional security and safety requirements may be imposed on our operations in the future or the costs or revenue impact that would be associated with complying with such requirements, although such costs and revenue impact could be significant. To the extent that the costs of complying with any additional safety and security measures are not reimbursed by our code-share partners, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If our operating costs increase as our aircraft fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. As our fleet of aircraft age, the cost of maintaining such aircraft, if not replaced, will likely increase. There can be no assurance that costs of maintenance, including costs to comply with aging aircraft requirements, will not materially increase in the future. Any material increase in such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because many aircraft components are required to be replaced after specified numbers of flight hours or take-off and landing cycles, and because new aviation technology may be required to be retrofitted, the cost to maintain aging aircraft will generally exceed the cost to maintain newer aircraft. We believe that the cost to maintain our aircraft in the long-term will be consistent with industry experience for these aircraft types and ages used by comparable airlines. We believe that our aircraft are mechanically reliable based on the percentage of scheduled flights completed and as of September 30, 2007 the average age of our fleet excluding Beechcraft 1900D’s is 5.2 years. However, there can be no assurance that such aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. Furthermore, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our fleet expansion program has required a significant increase in our leverage. The airline business is very capital intensive and we are highly leveraged. For the year ended September 30, 2007, our debt service payments, including principal and interest, totaled $77.1 million and our aircraft lease payments totaled $239.7 million. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft and ground facilities, which aggregated approximately $2.1 billion at September 30, 2007. As of September 30, 2007, our growth strategy involves the acquisition of ten more CRJ-700 regional jets, with deliveries beginning late fiscal 2008 and 13 more CRJ-900 aircraft, being leased directly from Delta for $1.00 per month in connection with the Delta code-share agreement of March 2007, with delivery through 2009. As of September 30, 2007, we had permanently financed all aircraft delivered under the 2001 Bombardier Regional Aircraft Agreement (“BRAD”) agreement. We may utilize interim financing provided by the manufacturer and have the ability to fund up to 15 aircraft at any one time under this facility. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain permanent financing for the ten CRJ-700 future aircraft deliveries. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft necessary for our expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, the lender/lessor has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and, in the case of large creditors, the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. Even if we are able to timely service our debt, the size of our long-term debt and lease obligations and investment requirements could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: • increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; 18 Table of Contents • limiting the ways in which we can use our cash generated from operations, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations and investment requirements; and • adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions or continue our growth strategy. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under the revenue-guarantee agreements would adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Even though our revenue-guarantee agreements require a fixed amount per month to compensate us for our fixed costs, if our aircraft are underutilized (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) we will lose the opportunity to receive a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized. If we incur problems with any of our third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including aircraft maintenance, ground facilities, baggage handling and personnel training. It is likely that similar agreements will be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. All of these agreements are subject to termination after notice. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk of loss and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft. To the extent a decrease in air travelers is associated with our operations not covered by our code-share agreements, such a decrease could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we become involved in any material litigation or any existing litigation is concluded in a manner adverse to us, our earnings may decline. We are, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future litigation. In February 2006, Hawaiian Airlines, Inc. (“Hawaiian”) filed a complaint against us in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Hawaii (the “Bankruptcy Court”) alleging that we had breached the terms of a Confidentiality Agreement entered into in April 2004 with the Trustee in Hawaiian’s bankruptcy proceedings. Hawaiian’s complaint alleged, among other things, that we breached the Confidentiality Agreement by (a) using the evaluation material in deciding to enter the Hawaiian inter-island market, and (b) failing to return or destroy any evaluation materials after being notified by Hawaiian on or about May 12, 2004 that the Company had not been selected as a potential investor for a transaction with Hawaiian. Hawaiian, in its complaint, sought unspecified damages, requested that we turn over to Hawaiian any evaluation material in our possession, custody or control, and also sought an injunction preventing our subsidiary, go! from providing inter-island transportation services in the State of Hawaii for a period of two years from the date of such injunctive relief. 19 Table of Contents On October 30, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court found that we violated the terms of the Confidentiality Agreement and awarded Hawaiian $80.0 million in damages and ordered us to pay Hawaiian’s cost of litigation, reasonable attorneys’ fees and interest. This ruling arose out of the Bankruptcy Court’s finding that our former executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer intentionally and in bad faith destroyed evidence pertinent to Hawaiian’s case against us. Mr. Murnane was terminated on November 2, 2007. While we have filed a notice of appeal to this ruling, we can give no assurance that our appeal will result in a favorable outcome for us. In November 2007, we posted a $90.0 million bond as security for the judgment amount by placing such amount with a surety acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court. If we are unable to successfully overturn this ruling or reduce the amount of damages award, we will lose some or all of the cash securing the bond. On January 9, 2007, Aloha Airlines filed suit against Mesa Air Group in the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii. The complaint seeks damages and injunctive relief. Aloha alleges that Mesa’s inter-island air fares are below cost and that Mesa is, therefore, violating specific provisions of the Sherman Act. Aloha also alleges breach of contract and fraud by Mesa in connection with two confidentiality agreements, one in 2005 and the other in 2006. Mesa denies any attempt at monopolization of the inter-island market and further denies any improper use of the data furnished by Aloha while Mesa was considering a bid for Aloha during its bankruptcy proceedings. The case is in its incipient stages and a tentative trial date of October 28, 2008 has been scheduled by the court. Our business would be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. We have employment agreements with certain executive officers, but it is possible that members of executive management may leave us. Departures by our executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive, we require large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other personnel. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, particularly with respect to pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have faced considerable turnover of our employees. Regional airline pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians often leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and better benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to carry out our expansion plans or replace departing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our expansion plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. We may be unable to profitably operate our Hawaiian airline, which could negatively impact our business and operations. In June 2006, we launched our independent inter-island Hawaiian airline operation named go! and have incurred operating losses since inception. Providing service in Hawaii will require ongoing investment of working capital by Mesa and management attention and focus. Further, in light of the costs and risks associated with operating an independent low fare regional jet airline, we may be unable to operate the Hawaiian airline profitably, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results under our revenue-guarantee contracts offer no meaningful guidance with respect to our future performance in running an independent airline because we have not previously operated as an independent 20 Table of Contents regional jet carrier in Hawaii. We are operating under a new brand that will initially have limited market recognition. Future performance will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: • establish a brand that is attractive to our target customers; • maintain adequate controls over our expenses; • monitor and manage operational and financial risks; • secure favorable terms with airports, suppliers and other contractors; • maintain the safety and security of our operations; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and • react to responses from competitors who are more established in the Hawaiian markets. We have experienced significant operating and cash losses in certain areas of operations which could negatively impact our business and operations. We have experienced significant cash losses in our Air Midwest operations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 the Company committed to a plan to sell Air Midwest or certain assets thereof. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to find a buyer for such operations or assets. We have three equity method investments as of September 30, 2007. During fiscal 2007, we incurred significant non-cash losses related to these investments. We are not in control of the operations for these investments. Accordingly, we cannot control or predict the future impact these investment may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Joint Venture in China If we became involved in a dispute with Shenzhen Airlines related to the Joint Venture Agreement, we could experience difficulties in initiating litigation in a United States court, enforcing judgments of a United States court or bringing original actions in China. The Joint Venture Agreement is governed by the laws of China. As a result, it may not be possible to enforce our rights under the Joint Venture Agreement through litigation in a United States court in the event of a dispute arising under the Joint Venture Agreement. Moreover, even if we were able to bring litigation in a United States court, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts. Additionally, although China’s legal system is continually evolving, we can give no assurance that we would be able to bring an original action before a court in China, or, if we were able to do so, that a court in China would render a fair and impartial verdict. We face significant risks if the Chinese government changes its policies, laws, regulations, tax structure or its current interpretations of its laws, rules and regulations relating to Kunpeng’s operations in China. The Joint Venture Agreement is governed by the laws of China and Kunpeng’s operations are located solely in China. Consequently, Kunpeng’s results of operations, financial state of affairs and future growth are, to a significant degree, subject to China’s economic, political and legal development and related uncertainties. Kunpeng’s operations and results could be materially affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation of laws or regulations; • confiscatory taxation; • changes in employment restrictions; • restrictions on imports and sources of supply; • import duties; 21 Table of Contents • corruption; • currency revaluation; and • the expropriation of private enterprise. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activities and greater economic decentralization. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue its present policies that encourage foreign investment and operations in China, or if these policies are either not successful or are significantly altered in the future, then Kunpeng’s business could be adversely affected. Kunpeng could even be subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of our investment in Kunpeng. Following the Chinese government’s policy of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through increased tax collection. Continued efforts to increase tax revenues could result in increased taxation expenses being incurred by Kunpeng. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation, the inadequate development of infrastructure and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation and communications. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on Kunpeng’s business results of operations and the return we could derive from this investment. Chinese laws and regulations governing Kunpeng’s current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on Kunpeng’s business. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing Kunpeng’s business, equity ownership, or the enforcement and performance of Kunpeng’s arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on Kunpeng’s business. If the relevant authorities find Kunpeng in violation of Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking Kunpeng’s business and other licenses; • requiring that Kunpeng restructure its ownership or operations; and • requiring that Kunpeng discontinue any portion or all of its business. Controversies affecting China’s trade with the United States may negatively affect our operations. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States through its entry into the World Trade Organization, controversies and trade disagreements between the United States and China may arise that have a material adverse effect upon our investment in Kunpeng. Kunpeng’s labor costs are likely to increase as a result of changes in Chinese labor laws. The Chinese labor market recently experienced an increase in the cost of labor. Recent changes in Chinese labor laws that are effective January 1, 2008 are likely to increase costs further and impose restrictions on Kunpeng’s relationship with its employees. There can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change further or 22 Table of Contents that their interpretation and implementation will vary, which may have a material adverse effect upon Kunpeng’s business and results of operations. Whether Kunpeng will receive preferential tax treatment under Chinese law is currently unclear. If Kunpeng does not receive such preferential tax treatment, its profitability may be negatively impacted. Prior to the adoption of the Chinese Enterprise Income Tax Law on March 16, 2007 (the “EIT Law”), Chinese income tax law provided that enterprises such as Kunpeng were entitled to receive an exemption from the entire central government income tax for the two years beginning with its first profitable year and receive a 50% reduced income tax in the third through fifth years. Kunpeng’s business license was issued after adoption of the EIT Law. Accordingly, Chinese tax authorities may conclude that Kunpeng is not entitled to such preferential tax treatment. The full tax exemption for the enterprise income tax expired on December 31, 2005 and the one-half reduction on the enterprise profit tax to 13.5% will expire on December 31, 2008. Regardless of whether Kunpeng is granted preferential tax treatment by China’s tax authorities, after such tax holidays, Kunpeng’s profits will be subject to the full tax rate of 25%, effective as of January 1, 2008 in accordance with the EIT Law passed in 2007. If Kunpeng is not granted preferential tax treatment, and in any event, after January 1, 2008, Kunpeng’s tax obligations could materially impact its operations. Under the EIT Law, a uniform tax rate of 25% has been adopted for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and several tax incentives enjoyed by foreign-invested enterprises have been cancelled. However, for foreign-invested enterprises established before the promulgation of the EIT Law, a five-year transition period is provided during which reduced rates will apply but gradually be phased out. Since the Chinese government has not announced implementation measures for the transitional policy with regards to such preferential tax rates, we cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of the new tax law to Kunpeng at this time. Moreover, because Kunpeng’s business license was issued after promulgation of the EIT law, we can give no assurance that Chinese tax authorities will grant Kunpeng preferential tax treatment. Further, any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Kunpeng or other adverse tax treatments would have a material adverse effect on Kunpeng’s results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in exchange rates of the Renminbi, or RMB, could adversely affect the value of and dividends, if any, payable on shares of Kunpeng’s registered capital or otherwise impact our operations and profitability. Since (i) Kunpeng’s income and profit are mainly denominated in the Chinese Renminbi, and (ii) the payment of dividends, if any, by Kunpeng will be in Renminbi, any exchange fluctuation of the Renminbi against other foreign currencies would adversely affect the value of our equity investment in Kunpeng and dividends payable to us by Kunpeng, in foreign currency terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert Renminbi we receive as a profit distribution from Kunpeng, if the U.S. Dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Conversely, if we decide to convert our U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for the purpose of making additional investment in Kunpeng and the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. Dollar, the Renminbi equivalent of the U.S. Dollar we convert would be reduced. As of December 10, 2007, our outstanding obligation to make additional capital contributions to Kunpeng under the Joint Venture Agreement had an aggregate fair value of approximately $26.5 million (or approximately 196,000,000 Renminibi). The potential increase in the fair value of this obligation resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $2.65 million at December 10, 2007. The ability of Kunpeng to make profit distributions to us may be restricted due to foreign exchange control regulations of China. The ability of Kunpeng to make profit distributions to us may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balances. Since substantially all of Kunpeng’s operations are conducted in China and a majority of its revenues are generated in China, a significant portion of its revenue earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi. 23 Table of Contents The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Renminbi is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict Kunpeng’s ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to make profit distributions to us, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents Kunpeng from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy its currency demands, it may not be able to make profit distributions to us or pay certain of its expenses as they come due. We are a joint venture partner in a new regional air carrier in the People’s Republic of China to whom we sublease aircraft. If the regional carrier is unable to operate profitably, or if for any reason it defaults under a sublease with us, such event would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a joint venture partner with Shenzhen Airlines, we are a co-owner of Kunpeng, a regional air carrier certificated under the laws of the People’s Republic of China. In addition to our joint venture interest in Kunpeng, we currently sublease three regional jets to Kunpeng and are in negotiations to sublease additional aircraft to Kunpeng in the future. We lease these aircraft from unrelated third parties under long-term leases (“Headlease”) and as the lessee we are responsible for rent as well as all costs of maintaining, operating and insuring the aircraft. We pass along most of those costs to the sublessee under the sublease, but we are not thereby released from our obligations under the Headlease. If the sublessee defaults and fails to perform any of its obligations under a sublease, that failure may result in a default by us under the related Headlease. If Kunpeng were to default under a sublease, for any reason, that default would have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture, and would also have a material adverse effect upon our ability to perform our obligations under the related Headlease, including our obligation to pay rent and to maintain the aircraft in a specified airworthy condition. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry If competition in the airline industry increases, we may experience a decline in revenue. Increased competition in the airline industry as well as competitive pressure on our code-share partners or in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The airline industry is highly competitive. The earnings of many of the airlines have historically been volatile. The airline industry is susceptible to price discounting, which involves the offering of discount or promotional fares to passengers. Any such fares offered by one airline are normally matched by competing airlines, which may result in lower revenue per passenger, i.e., lower yields, without a corresponding increase in traffic levels. Also, in recent 24 Table of Contents years several new carriers have entered the industry, typically with low cost structures. In some cases, new entrants have initiated or triggered price discounting. The entry of additional new major or regional carriers in any of our markets, as well as increased competition from or the introduction of new services by established carriers, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on our code-share agreements with our major airline partners for the majority of our revenue means that we must rely on the ability of our code-share partners to adequately promote their respective services and to maintain their respective market share. Competitive pressures by low-fare carriers and price discounting among major airlines could have a material adverse effect on our code-share partners and therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of operations in the air travel business historically fluctuate in response to general economic conditions. The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions that affect business and leisure travel and is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as political instability, regional hostilities, economic recession, fuel price increases, inflation, adverse weather conditions or other adverse occurrences that result in a decline in air travel. Any event that results in decreased travel or increased competition among airlines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from ground and sea transportation alternatives. Video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel. The airline industry is heavily regulated. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business, to the extent such costs are not reimbursed by our code-share partners. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. If adopted, these measures could have had the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA has imposed more stringent security procedures on airlines and imposed security taxes on each ticket sold. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and add increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our code-share partners is a significant source of revenue, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents might deter acquisition bids for us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that, among other things: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock ranking senior to our common stock without any action on the part of the stockholders; • establish advance notice procedures for shareholder proposals, including nominations of directors, to be considered at stockholders’ meetings; • authorize a majority of our board of directors, in certain circumstances, to fill vacancies on the board resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or from vacancies; • restrict the ability of stockholders to modify the number of authorized directors; and • restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. In addition, Section 78.438 of the Nevada general corporation law prohibits us from entering into some business combinations with interested stockholders without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline following this Form 10-K, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock following this Form 10-K; • governmental regulatory action; or • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 