Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on our agreements with our code-share partners. We depend on relationships created by our code-share agreements. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated passenger revenues from our revenue-guarantee code-share agreements with Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and US Airways. Our code-share partners have certain rights to cancel the applicable code-share agreement upon the occurrence of certain events or the giving of appropriate notice, subject to certain conditions. No assurance can be given that one or more of our code-share partners will not serve notice at a later date of their intention to cancel our code-sharing agreement, forcing us to stop selling those routes with the applicable partner’s code and potentially reducing our traffic and revenue. Our code-share agreement with US Airways allows US Airways, subject to certain restrictions, to reduce the combined CRJ fleets utilized under the code-share agreement by one aircraft in any six-month period commencing in June 2006 (except during the calendar year 2007 in which 2 CRJ-200 can be eliminated in each six-month period). In addition, beginning in February 2007, US Airways may eliminate the Dash-8 aircraft upon 180 days prior written notice. US Airways has notified the Company of its intent to reduce the maximum number of CRJs in 2006 and 2007. US Airways has used this provision to reduce the number of aircraft covered by the code-share agreement and we anticipate they will continue to further reduce the number of covered aircraft in accordance with the agreement. In addition, because a majority of our operating revenues are currently generated under revenue-guarantee code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, our operating revenues and net income could be materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements or, alternatively, fly under our own flight designator code, including obtaining the airport facilities and gates necessary to do so. For the year ended September 30, 2006, our US Airways revenue-guarantee code-share agreement accounted for 51% of our consolidated passenger revenues, our Delta code-share agreement accounted for 9% of our consolidated passenger revenue and our United code-share agreement accounted for 36% of our consolidated passenger revenues. If our code-share partners or other regional carriers experience events that negatively impact their financial strength or operations, our operations also may be negatively impacted. We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of our code-share partners. Any events that negatively impact the financial strength of our code-share partners or have a long-term effect on the use of our code-share partners by airline travelers would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our code-share partners, such partner may seek to reduce, or be unable to make, the payments due to us under their code-share agreement. In addition, they may reduce utilization of our aircraft. Although there are certain monthly guaranteed payment amounts, there are no minimum levels of utilization specified in the code-share agreements. Delta has not yet assumed our code-share agreement in its bankruptcy proceeding and could choose to terminate this agreement or seek to renegotiate the agreement on terms less favorable to us. If any of our other current or future code-share 12 Table of Contents partners become bankrupt, our code-share agreement with such partner may not be assumed in bankruptcy and would be terminated. This and other such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any negative events that occur to other regional carriers and that affect public perception of such carriers generally could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our code-share partners may expand their direct operation of regional jets thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. We depend on major airlines like Delta, United Airlines and US Airways electing to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own regional jets. However, these major airlines possess the resources to acquire and operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own regional jets or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. A decision by Delta, United Airlines, or US Airways to phase out our contract-based code-share relationships or to enter into similar agreements with competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to Mesa, our partners have similar code-share agreements with other competing regional airlines. According to news reports, US Airways, one of our code-share partners, has proposed to merge with Delta, another of our code-share partners. According to these same reports, Delta has rejected this proposal. We are unable, at this time, to predict what effect such a merger would have on our relationship with the parties or on our financial condition and operations. If we experience a lack of labor availability or strikes, it could result in a decrease of revenues due to the cancellation of flights. The operation of our business is significantly dependent on the availability of qualified employees, including, specifically, flight crews, mechanics and avionics specialists. Historically, regional airlines have periodically experienced high pilot turnover as a result of air carriers operating larger aircraft hiring their commercial pilots. Further, the addition of aircraft, especially new aircraft types, can result in pilots upgrading between aircraft types and becoming unavailable for duty during the required extensive training periods. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an adequate supply of qualified personnel or that labor expenses will not increase. At September 30, 2006, we had approximately 5,200 employees, approximately 3,000 of whom are members of labor unions, including ALPA and the AFA. Our collective bargaining agreement with ALPA becomes amendable in September 2007 and our collective bargaining agreement with the AFA became amendable in June 2006 and the Company is in the early stages of negotiations with its flight attendants. The inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with existing unions as agreements expire or with new unions could result in work stoppages by the affected workers, lost revenues resulting from the cancellation of flights and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. We cannot predict which, if any, other employee groups may seek union representation or the outcome or the terms of any future collective bargaining agreement and therefore the effect, if any, on our business financial condition and results of operations. If negotiations with unions over collective bargaining agreements prove to be unsuccessful, following specified “cooling off” periods, the unions may initiate a work action, including a strike, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will cause our earnings to decrease. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments under our code-share agreements if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. 13 Table of Contents If new airline regulations are passed or are imposed upon our operations, we may incur increased operating costs and experience a decrease in earnings. Laws and regulations, such as those described below, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of our operations by imposing additional requirements or restrictions on our operations. We cannot predict what laws and regulations will be adopted or what changes to air transportation agreements will be effected, if any, or how they will affect us, and there can be no assurance that laws or regulations currently proposed or enacted in the future will not increase our operating expenses and therefore adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As an interstate air carrier, we are subject to the economic jurisdiction, regulation and continuing air carrier fitness requirements of the DOT, which include required levels of financial, managerial and regulatory fitness. The DOT is authorized to establish consumer protection regulations to prevent unfair methods of competition and deceptive practices, to prohibit certain pricing practices, to inspect a carrier’s books, properties and records, to mandate conditions of carriage and to suspend an air carrier’s fitness to operate. The DOT also has the power to bring proceedings for the enforcement of air carrier economic regulations, including the assessment of civil penalties, and to seek criminal sanctions. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to our aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communication, training, weather observation, flight personnel and other matters affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain an operating certificate, which is subject to suspension or revocation for cause, and provides for regular inspections. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time-consuming inspections of, or maintenance on, all or any of our turboprops or regional jets, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer or Canadair regional jets, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our regional jets at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. lf additional security and safety measures regulations are adopted, we may incur increased operating costs and experience a decrease in earnings. Congress has adopted increased safety and security measures designed to increase airline passenger security and protect against terrorist acts. Such measures have resulted in additional operating costs to the airline industry. The Aviation Safety Commission’s report recommends the adoption of further measures aimed at improving the safety and security of air travel. We cannot forecast what additional security and safety requirements may be imposed on our operations in the future or the costs or revenue impact that would be associated with complying with such requirements, although such costs and revenue impact could be significant. To the extent that the costs of complying with any additional safety and security measures are not reimbursed by our code-share partners, our operating results and net income could be adversely affected. If our operating costs increase as our aircraft fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. As our fleet of aircraft age, the cost of maintaining such aircraft, if not replaced, will likely increase. There can be no assurance that costs of maintenance, including costs to comply with aging aircraft requirements, will not 14 Table of Contents materially increase in the future. Any material increase in such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because many aircraft components are required to be replaced after specified numbers of flight hours or take-off and landing cycles, and because new aviation technology may be required to be retrofitted, the cost to maintain aging aircraft will generally exceed the cost to maintain newer aircraft. We believe that the cost to maintain our aircraft in the long-term will be consistent with industry experience for these aircraft types and ages used by comparable airlines. We believe that our aircraft are mechanically reliable based on the percentage of scheduled flights completed and as of September 30, 2006 the average age of our regional jet fleet is 4.0 years. However, there can be no assurance that such aircraft will continue to be sufficiently reliable over longer periods of time. Furthermore, any public perception that our aircraft are less than completely reliable could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our fleet expansion program has required a significant increase in our leverage. The airline business is very capital intensive and we are highly leveraged. For the year ended September 30, 2006, our debt service payments, including principal and interest, totaled $73.3 million and our aircraft lease payments totaled $246.8 million. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft and ground facilities, which aggregated approximately $2.3 billion at September 30, 2006. As of September 30, 2006, our growth strategy involves the acquisition of three more Bombardier regional jets during fiscal 2007. As of September 30, 2006, we had permanently financed all but five CRJ-700 and CRJ-900 aircraft delivered under the 2001 BRAD agreement. We may utilize interim financing provided by the manufacturer and have the ability to fund up to 15 aircraft at any one time under this facility. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain permanent financing for future aircraft deliveries. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft necessary for our expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, the lender/lessor has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and, in the case of large creditors, the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. Even if we are able to timely service our debt, the size of our long-term debt and lease obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: • increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; • limiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and • adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions or continue our growth strategy. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under the revenue-guarantee agreements would adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Even though our revenue-guarantee agreements require a fixed amount per month to compensate us for our fixed costs, if our aircraft are underutilized (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) we will lose the opportunity to receive a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized. If we incur problems with any of our third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services. Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in the relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including aircraft maintenance, ground facilities, baggage handling and personnel training. It is likely that similar agreements will be entered into in 15 Table of Contents any new markets we decide to serve. All of these agreements are subject to termination after notice. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk of loss and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft. If one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft. To the extent a decrease in air travelers is associated with our operations not covered by our code-share agreements, such a decrease could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we become involved in any material litigation or any existing litigation is concluded in a manner adverse to us, our earnings may decline. We are, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future litigation. In February 2006, Hawaiian Airlines, Inc. (“Hawaiian”) filed a complaint against the Company in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Hawaii (the “Bankruptcy Court) alleging that the Company breached the terms of a Confidentiality Agreement entered into in April 2004 with the Trustee in Hawaiian’s bankruptcy proceedings. Hawaiian’s complaint alleges, among other things, that the Company breached the Confidentiality Agreement by (a) using the evaluation material to obtain a competitive advantage over Hawaiian, through the development and implementation of a business plan to compete with Hawaiian in the inter-island market, and (b) failing to return or destroy any evaluation materials after being notified by Hawaiian on or about May 12, 2004 that the Company had not been selected as a potential investor for a transaction with Hawaiian. Hawaiian, in its complaint, seeks unspecified damages, requests that the Company turn over to Hawaiian any evaluation material in the Company’s possession, custody or control (the “Turnover Claim”), and an injunction preventing the Company from providing inter-island transportation services in the State of Hawaii for a period of two years from the date of such injunctive relief. The Company vigorously denies Hawaiian’s allegations and requests for relief contained in its complaint. The Company filed both an answer and an antitrust counterclaim against Hawaiian in response to its complaint. In May 2006, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Turnover Claim contained in Hawaiian’s complaint, but the Bankruptcy Court denied that motion. On December 8, 2006 the Bankruptcy Court, based on constitutional access to the courts, also granted Hawaiian’s motion for summary judgment against the Company on its antitrust counterclaim. The Company does not believe that either of these decisions has a material impact on the Company’s position in the lawsuit. Finally, in October 2006, the Bankruptcy Court denied Hawaiian’s effort to enjoin the Company’s go! operation from selling tickets claiming that go!’s entry into the inter-island air transport business was based on trade secrets furnished to Mesa during the Hawaiian bankruptcy. The Court found no such misuse of confidential information and rejected Hawaiian’s motion for a preliminary injunction. In June 2006, Hawaiian requested a preliminary injunction to prevent the Company from issuing new airline tickets for the Hawaiian inter-island market for a period of one year. In this request, Hawaiian alleges that initial discovery conducted reveals that the Company breached the Confidentiality Agreement. The Court has recently denied Hawaiian’s request for a preliminary injunction. The case will be tried sometime in 2007. On October 13, 2006, Aloha Airlines filed suit against Mesa Air Group and two of its Hawaii based employees, Charles Lauritsen, go!’s Chief Operating Officer and Joe Bock, go!’s Chief Marketing Officer. The complaint was filed in state court in Hawaii and contains 11 counts and seeks damages and injunctive relief. The clear purpose of 16 Table of Contents the complaint is to blunt Mesa’s entry into the Hawaii inter-island market segment. Aloha alleges that Mesa’s inter-island air fares are below cost and that Mesa is, therefore, violating specific provisions of Hawaii antitrust and unfair competition law. Aloha also alleges breach of contract and fraud by Mesa in connection with two confidentiality agreements, one in 2005 and the other in 2006. In 1992, The Supreme Court of the United States decided Morales v. TWA, in which it construed the Airline Deregulation Act as prohibiting any state court, under any state law legal theory, from adjudicating issues which implicated an air carrier’s pricing (or other service) practices. Accordingly, an airline’s pricing decisions can be attacked only under federal laws. In response to the complaint, Mesa filed a motion on December 8 seeking dismissal of all claims which rest on Mesa’s alleged below-cost pricing. Mesa also denies any improper use of the data furnished by Aloha while Mesa was considering a bid for Aloha during its bankruptcy. The case is in its incipient stages and no trial date has yet been set. Our business would be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our executive management team. We have employment agreements with certain executive officers, but it is possible that members of executive management may leave us. Departures by our executive officers could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive, we require large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other personnel. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have faced considerable turnover of our employees. Although our employee turnover has decreased significantly since September 11, 2001, our pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians often leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and better benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to carry out our expansion plans or replace departing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our expansion plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. We may be unable to profitably operate our Hawaiian airline, which could negatively impact our business and operations. In June 2006, we launched our independent inter-island Hawaiian airline operation named go! Providing service in Hawaii will require ongoing investment of working capital by Mesa and management attention and focus. Further, in light of the costs and risks associated with operating an independent low fare regional jet airline, we may be unable to operate the Hawaiian airline profitably, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results under our revenue-guarantee contracts offer no meaningful guidance with respect to our future performance in running an independent airline because we have not previously operated as an independent regional jet carrier in Hawaii. We are operating under a new brand that will initially have limited market recognition. Future performance will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: • establish a brand that is attractive to our target customers; • maintain adequate controls over our expenses; • monitor and manage operational and financial risks; 17 Table of Contents • secure favorable terms with airports, suppliers and other contractors; • maintain the safety and security of our operations; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and • react to responses from competitors who are more established in the Hawaiian markets. Risks Related to Our Industry If competition in the airline industry increases, we may experience a decline in revenue. Increased competition in the airline industry as well as competitive pressure on our code-share partners or in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The airline industry is highly competitive. The earnings of many of the airlines have historically been volatile. The airline industry is susceptible to price discounting, which involves the offering of discount or promotional fares to passengers. Any such fares offered by one airline are normally matched by competing airlines, which may result in lower revenue per passenger, i.e., lower yields, without a corresponding increase in traffic levels. Also, in recent years several new carriers have entered the industry, typically with low cost structures. In some cases, new entrants have initiated or triggered price discounting. The entry of additional new major or regional carriers in any of our markets, as well as increased competition from or the introduction of new services by established carriers, could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on our code-share agreements with our major airline partners for the majority of our revenue means that we must rely on the ability of our code-share partners to adequately promote their respective services and to maintain their respective market share. Competitive pressures by low-fare carriers and price discounting among major airlines could have a material adverse effect on our code-share partners and therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The results of operations in the air travel business historically fluctuate in response to general economic conditions. The airline industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions that affect business and leisure travel and is highly susceptible to unforeseen events, such as political instability, regional hostilities, economic recession, fuel price increases, inflation, adverse weather conditions or other adverse occurrences that result in a decline in air travel. Any event that results in decreased travel or increased competition among airlines could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from ground and sea transportation alternatives. Video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel. The airline industry is heavily regulated. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business, to the extent such costs are not reimbursed by our code-share partners. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that 18 Table of Contents have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. If adopted, these measures could have had the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA has imposed more stringent security procedures on airlines and imposed security taxes on each ticket sold. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and add increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our code-share partners is a significant source of revenue, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents might deter acquisition bids for us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that, among other things: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock ranking senior to our common stock without any action on the part of the shareholders; • establish advance notice procedures for shareholder proposals, including nominations of directors, to be considered at shareholders’ meetings; • authorize a majority of our board of directors, in certain circumstances, to fill vacancies on the board resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or from vacancies; • restrict the ability of shareholders to modify the number of authorized directors; and • restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of shareholders. In addition, Section 78.438 of the Nevada general corporation law prohibits us from entering into some business combinations with interested stockholders without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our stock price may continue to be volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for our common stock to decline following this Form 10-K, including: • our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in any quarter; • downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock following this Form 10-K; 19 Table of Contents • governmental regulatory action; or • adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 