Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is highly speculative, involves a high degree of risk, and should be made only by investors who can afford a complete loss. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes, before you decide to buy our common stock. Our most significant risks and uncertainties are described below; however, they are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment therein. If we do not achieve commercial success with our approved product or if we do not successfully develop our product candidates into marketable products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. We divested the neoprobe GDS line of gamma detection medical devices in August 2011. Through that time, sales of gamma detection devices represented our primary source of revenue. As a result, our near-term financial success depends in large part on Lymphoseek achieving commercial success in the U.S. and, pending approval in other markets, on achievement of commercial success in those markets as well. Lymphoseek was approved and indicated for use in lymphatic mapping for breast cancer and melanoma by the FDA on March 13, 2013. Additional trials, two of which are already ongoing in head and neck cancer and colorectal cancer, are anticipated to provide support for expanding the utilization of Lymphoseek into multiple other cancer types. We expect to begin generating revenues from product sales of Lymphoseek in the second quarter of 2013. As we generate revenues from Lymphoseek, it is possible we will ultimately receive payments related to the achievement of certain sales milestones by our marketing partner in the U.S. However, we cannot assure you that Lymphoseek will achieve commercial success in the U.S. or any other global market, that we will realize sales at levels necessary for us to achieve sales milestone payments, or that revenue from Lymphoseek will lead to us becoming profitable. 23 In addition, NAV4694, NAV5001 and RIGScan are in various stages of clinical development. Regulatory approval for additional indications for Lymphoseek may not be successful, or if successful, may not result in increased sales. Additional clinical trials for NAV4694, NAV5001, RIGScan, or other product candidates, may not be successful and, even if they are, we may not be successful in developing any of them into a commercial product which will provide sufficient revenue to make us profitable. Many companies in the pharmaceutical industry suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. Even if our trials are viewed as successful, we may not get regulatory approval. Our product candidates will be successful only if: ·they are developed to a stage that will enable us to commercialize them or sell related marketing rights to pharmaceutical companies; ·we are able to commercialize them in clinical development or sell the marketing rights to third parties; and ·upon being developed, they are approved by the regulatory authorities. We are dependent on the achievement of these goals in order to generate future revenues. The failure to generate such revenues may preclude us from continuing our research and development of these and other product candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will obtain regulatory approval to manufacture or market our unapproved drug candidates and our approval to market our products or anticipated commercial launch may be delayed as a result of the regulatory review process. Obtaining regulatory approval to market drugs to diagnose or treat cancer is expensive, difficult and risky. Preclinical and clinical data as well as information related to the CMC processes of drug production can be interpreted in different ways which could delay, limit or preclude regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results, adverse medical events during a clinical trial, or issues related to CMC processes could also delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Even if we receive regulatory clearance to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be conditioned on us conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the indicated uses included in our labeling. Our radiopharmaceutical products will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review following the receipt of marketing approval. If we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of our products could be suspended. Approved products may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent their widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, any contract manufacturer we use in the process of producing a product and its facilities will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing clearance, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. 24 If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: ·restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; ·warning letters; ·civil or criminal penalties; ·fines; ·injunctions; ·product seizures or detentions; ·import bans; ·voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; ·suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; ·total or partial suspension of production; and ·refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. Even if our drug candidates are successful in clinical trials, we may not be able to successfully commercialize them. With the historical exception of our discontinued medical device businesses, we have dedicated and will continue to dedicate substantially all of our resources to the research and development of our radiopharmaceutical technologies and related compounds. With the exception of Lymphoseek, now approved for use in lymphatic mapping in breast cancer and melanoma in the U.S., all of our compounds currently are in research or development or regulatory review and have not received marketing approval. Prior to commercialization, each product candidate requires significant research, development and preclinical testing and extensive clinical investigation before submission of any regulatory application for marketing approval. The development of radiopharmaceutical technologies and compounds, including those we are currently developing, is unpredictable and subject to numerous risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons including that they may: ·be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials; ·fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; ·be difficult to manufacture on a scale necessary for commercialization; ·be uneconomical to produce; ·fail to achieve market acceptance; or ·be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of our product candidates. Products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed and/or may not achieve customer acceptance. If we fail to commercialize products or if our future products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not likely generate significant revenues or become profitable. If we are not successful in licensing or acquiring additional drug candidates or technologies to expand our product pipeline, our future product portfolio and potential profitability could be harmed. One component of our business strategy is to in-license drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. All of our product candidates in clinical development are in-licensed from third parties, consisting of Lymphoseek, NAV4694, NAV5001 and RIGScan. We may not successfully acquire additional drug candidates or technologies to expand our product pipeline. The number of such candidates and technologies is limited. Competition among large pharmaceutical companies and biopharmaceutical companies for promising drug candidates and technologies is intense because such companies generally desire to expand their product pipelines through purchase or in-licensing. If we fail to expand our product pipeline, our potential future revenues may be adversely affected. 25 Clinical trials for our radiopharmaceutical product candidates will be lengthy and expensive and their outcome is uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a time consuming, expensive and uncertain process and may take years to complete. During 2011, we successfully completed a second Phase 3 clinical trial in subjects with breast cancer or melanoma for our most advanced radiopharmaceutical product candidate, Lymphoseek. These Phase 3 clinical trials served as the basis for the approval of Lymphoseek in March 2013. Clinical research of Lymphoseek continues with an ongoing third Phase 3 trial involving subjects with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (NEO3-06). The NEO3-06 clinical study was designed to provide evidence of Lymphoseek performance in a third cancer type and to potentially expand the product label for Lymphoseek. In January 2013, we announced that we had accrued sufficient subjects in our NEO3-06 study in patients with head and neck cancer to enable us to conduct a pre-planned interim analysis. This Phase 3 trial of Lymphoseek was designed to demonstrate the performance of Lymphoseek in identifying sentinel lymph nodes in subjects with squamous cell carcinoma on the head or in the mouth. The interim analysis will compare the pathological analysis of the sentinel lymph nodes localized using Lymphoseek with that of all the lymph nodes removed during a full nodal dissection surgery of the head and neck. This full dissection surgery is considered the gold standard for determining the presence and extent of cancer and staging of the disease in such patients. A total of 83 subjects who underwent pre-planned, full dissection surgery were enrolled and represent the interim analysis cohort. Results from the interim statistical analysis and reporting of the findings are expected to be available upon completion of full site and data audits planned for later in 2013. With respect to NAV4694, AstraZeneca has completed clinical development through a Phase 2a level. During the third quarter of 2012, we commenced our clinical development through some additional Phase 2 testing, mainly intended to expand the safety population, and we intend to commence Phase 2b testing in patients with mild cognitive impairment and autopsy-based Phase 3 testing of NAV4694 in 2013, but these plans could also experience complications and delays. With respect to NAV5001, Alseres had previously completed five clinical trials in over 600 subjects. Alseres received a Phase 3 SPA from the FDA for NAV5001 in 2009. We have held preliminary discussions with the FDA regarding the SPA and expect to update the SPA over the coming months. In August 2011, we held a meeting regarding RIGScan with the SAWP of the EMA and received similar guidance as we received from the FDA, as well as the suggestion that we consider use of a humanized version of the RIGS antibody. With this collective guidance, we have changed our development plans from a murine-based antibody to a humanized antibody on our development and regulatory timelines. As the scope and required resources for other development opportunities such as for NAV4694 and/or NAV5001 continues to be assessed, the timing and scope of our development and commercialization plan for RIGScan may be continue to be affected. 26 Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often do not predict the results obtained in later clinical trials. Frequently, drugs that have shown promising results in preclinical or early clinical trials subsequently fail to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval. At any time during the clinical trials, we, the participating institutions, the FDA or the EMA might delay or halt any clinical trials for our product candidates for various reasons, including: ·ineffectiveness of the product candidate; ·discovery of unacceptable toxicities or side effects; ·development of disease resistance or other physiological factors; ·delays in patient enrollment; or ·other reasons that are internal to the businesses of our potential collaborative partners, which reasons they may not share with us. While we have achieved some level of success in our clinical trials for Lymphoseek as indicated by the recent FDA approval, and our licensing partners have also achieved successful outcomes from earlier trials of NAV4694 and NAV5001, the results of some of these clinical trials that have not been yet reviewed by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, as well as pending and future trials for these and other product candidates that we may develop or acquire, are subject to review and interpretation by various regulatory bodies during the regulatory review process and may ultimately fail to demonstrate the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approval, or that commercialization of our product candidates is worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates could materially harm our business. We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (CROs) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, post-study audits and statistical analysis. Many important aspects of the services performed for us by the CROs are out of our direct control. If there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our CROs, our clinical trials may be delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party CROs. If any of our CROs’ processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We expect to enter into collaborative arrangements with third-parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates and are currently seeking additional collaborations. Such collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize our existing and future product candidates. If we fail to enter into collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline. 27 Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products including that: ·collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us; ·disagreements with partners or regulatory compliance issues may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; ·we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our products, or may not perform their obligations as expected; ·partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments. including products or treatments which compete with ours; ·agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; ·business combinations or significant changes in a partner's business strategy might adversely affect that partner's willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and ·the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the development or commercialization of our products. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs). Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical care. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to further reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for our products if approved for commercialization. The cost containment measures that health care payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially harm our ability to sell our products at a profit. While we expect a “pass-through” reimbursement code related to Lymphoseek’s designation as a new chemical entity to be established by the U.S. Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) in the months following FDA approval on March 13, 2013, there can be no assurance that such pass-through code will be received from CMS, and if not received, that the cost of Lymphoseek will be absorbed by healthcare providers. In addition, there can be no assurance that, even if a pass-through code is obtained, following the expiration of such code (generally two to three years following approval), we will be successful in establishing a separate permanent code for reimbursement of Lymphoseek and therefore the cost of Lymphoseek may be need to be absorbed by the institution as a part of the bundled procedural code for the surgical procedure in which Lymphoseek is used. If this is the case, our expectations of the pricing we expect to achieve for Lymphoseek and the related potential revenue may be significantly diminished. We may be unable to establish or contract for the pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities necessary to develop and commercialize our potential products. We are in the process of establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities on a third-party contract basis for our Lymphoseek product and clinical manufacturing capabilities for our other radiopharmaceutical compounds. We intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficiently large quantities of drug materials that are and will be needed for clinical trials and commercialization of our potential products. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to timing, quantity or quality of materials. 28 We have a supply agreement with Reliable to manufacture the drug substance for our Lymphoseek product and we currently use OsoBio for the finishing and vialing of our Lymphoseek product. However, if we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of needed materials on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers, our clinical trials may be delayed, thereby delaying the submission of product candidates for regulatory approval and the market introduction and subsequent commercialization of our potential products, and for approved products, any such delays, interruptions or other difficulties may render us unable to supply sufficient quantities to meet demand. Any such delays or interruptions may lower our revenues and potential profitability. We and any third-party manufacturers that we may use must continually adhere to cGMPs and regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program and/or foreign regulatory authorities where our products will be tested and/or marketed. If our facilities or the facilities of third-party manufacturers cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities will not grant approval to market our product candidates. In complying with these regulations and foreign regulatory requirements, we and any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort on production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our potential products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may take action against a contract manufacturer who violates cGMPs. We may lose out to larger or better-established competitors. The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources as well as greater experience in the pharmaceutical industry than we have. The particular medical conditions our product lines address can also be addressed by other medical procedures or drugs. Many of these alternatives are widely accepted by physicians and have a long history of use. Physicians may use our competitors’ products and/or our products may not be competitive with other technologies. Lymphoseek is expected to compete against sulfur colloid in the U.S. and other colloidal agents in other global markets. NAV4694 is expected to compete against florbetapir, a first-generation beta-amyloid imaging agent which Eli Lilly received approval for in 2012. We are also aware of two additional first-generation beta-amyloid imaging agents in late stages of development by two other large pharmaceutical companies. In addition, NAV5001 if approved, is expected to compete against a product marketed by GE Healthcare. If our competitors are successful in establishing and maintaining market share for their products, our sales and revenues may not occur at the rate we anticipate. In addition, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with larger companies to gain access to greater research and development or marketing resources. Competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may be exposed to product liability claims for our product candidates and products that we are able to commercialize. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. In recent years, coverage and availability of cost-effective product liability insurance has decreased, so we may be unable to maintain sufficient coverage for product liabilities that may arise. In addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and market our products will be adversely impacted. In addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition. 29 The administration of drugs in humans, whether in clinical studies or commercially, carries the inherent risk of product liability claims whether or not the drugs are actually the cause of an injury. Our products or product candidates may cause, or may appear to have caused, injury or dangerous drug interactions, and we may not learn about or understand those effects until the product or product candidate has been administered to patients for a prolonged period of time. We may be subject from time to time to lawsuits based on product liability and related claims, and we cannot predict the eventual outcome of any future litigation. We may not be successful in defending ourselves in the litigation and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and business if in excess of our insurance coverage. Additionally, lawsuits can be expensive to defend, whether or not they have merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in managing our business. As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost has increased significantly. We currently carry product liability insurance that our management believes is appropriate given the risks that we face. We will continually assess the cost and availability of insurance; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. If any of our license agreements for intellectual property underlying Lymphoseek, NAV4694, NAV5001 or RIGScan, or any other products or potential products are terminated, we may lose the right to develop or market that product. We have licensed intellectual property, including patents and patent applications relating to intellectual property for Lymphoseek, NAV4694, NAV5001 and RIGScan. We may also enter into other license agreements or acquire other product candidates. The potential success of our product development programs depend on our ability to maintain rights under these licenses, including our ability to achieve development or commercialization milestones contained in the licenses. Under certain circumstances, the licensors have the power to terminate their agreements with us if we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses. We may not be able to meet our obligations under these licenses. If we default under any license agreement, we may lose our right to market and sell any products based on the licensed technology. We may not have sufficient legal protection against infringement or loss of our intellectual property, and we may lose rights to our licensed intellectual property if diligence requirements are not met. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to secure and maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. While we seek to protect our proprietary positions by filing United States and foreign patent applications for our important inventions and improvements, domestic and foreign patent offices may not issue these patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents or patent applications in the future. Competitors, many of which have significantly more resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products either in the United States or abroad. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are or may be developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that we will be subject to claims that our products or product candidates, or their use, infringe the rights of others. In the United States, most patent applications are secret for a period of 18 months after filing, and in foreign countries, patent applications are secret for varying periods of time after filing. Publications of discoveries tend to significantly lag the actual discoveries and the filing of related patent applications. Third parties may have already filed applications for patents for products or processes that will make our products obsolete, limit our patents, invalidate our patent applications or create a risk of infringement claims. Under recent changes to U.S. patent law, the U.S. has moved to a “first to file” system of patent approval, as opposed to the former “first to invent” system. As a consequence, delays in filing patent applications for new product candidates or discoveries could result in the loss of patentability if there is an intervening patent application with similar claims filed by a third party, even if we or our collaborators were the first to invent. 30 We or our suppliers may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights or that the process of manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies, infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, or any of the underlying manufacturing processes or components, we could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, a patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce patents under which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, which may affect our rights. There can be no assurance that our patents would be held valid by a court or administrative body or that an alleged infringer would be found to be infringing. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any patent related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us. We typically require our employees, consultants, advisers and suppliers to execute confidentiality and assignment of invention agreements in connection with their employment, consulting, advisory, or supply relationships with us. They may breach these agreements and we may not obtain an adequate remedy for breach. Further, third parties may gain unauthorized access to our trade secrets or independently develop or acquire the same or equivalent information. Agencies of the United States government conducted some of the research activities that led to the development of antibody technology that some of our proposed antibody-based surgical cancer detection products use. When the United States government participates in research activities, it retains rights that include the right to use the technology for governmental purposes under a royalty-free license, as well as rights to use and disclose technical data that could preclude us from asserting trade secret rights in that data and software. We and our collaborators, including AstraZeneca and Alseres, may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our product candidates and products, when and if we have any, in every jurisdiction would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we or our licensors have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products. These products may compete with our products, when and if we have any, and may not be covered by any of our or our licensors' patent claims or other intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. 31 The intellectual property protection for our product candidates depends on third parties. With respect to Lymphoseek, NAV4694, NAV5001 and RIGScan, we have exclusively licensed certain issued patents and pending patent applications covering the respective technologies underlying these product candidates and their commercialization and use and we have licensed certain issued patents and pending patent applications directed to product compositions and chemical modifications used in product candidates for commercialization, and the use and the manufacturing thereof. The patents and pending patent applications underlying our licenses do not cover all potential product candidates, modifications and uses. In the case of patents and patent applications licensed from AstraZeneca, we have limited control over the filing, prosecution or enforcement of these patents or patent applications. In the case of patents and patent applications licensed from UCSD, we did not have any control over the filing of the patents and patent applications before the effective date of the Lymphoseek license, and have had limited control over the filing and prosecution of these patents and patent applications after the effective date of the Lymphoseek license. We also have limited rights to enforce patents and patent applications licensed from AstraZeneca and Alseres. We cannot be certain that such prosecution efforts have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents. We also cannot be assured that our licensors or their respective licensing partners will agree to enforce any such patent rights at our request or devote sufficient efforts to attain a desirable result. Any failure by our licensors or any of their respective licensing partners to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We may become involved in disputes with AstraZeneca, UCSD, Alseres, the NIH or potential future collaborators over intellectual property ownership, and publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors could impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which, in either case, could have a significant effect on our business. Inventions discovered under research, material transfer or other such collaborative agreements may become jointly owned by us and the other party to such agreements in some cases and the exclusive property of either party in other cases. Under some circumstances, it may be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention, or whether it is jointly owned, and disputes could arise regarding ownership of those inventions. These disputes could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business if we were not able to protect our license rights to these inventions. In addition, our research collaborators and scientific advisors generally have contractual rights to publish our data and other proprietary information, subject to our prior review. Publications by our research collaborators and scientific advisors containing such information, either with our permission or in contravention of the terms of their agreements with us, may impair our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information, which could significantly harm our business. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of employees and clinical trial subjects, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. 32 Failure to comply with domestic and international privacy and security laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. The costs of compliance with these laws, including protecting electronically stored information from cyber attacks, and potential liability associated with failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA. We may have difficulty raising additional capital, which could deprive us of necessary resources to pursue our business plans. We expect to devote significant capital resources to fund research and development, to maintain existing and secure new manufacturing resources, and to acquire new product candidates. In order to support the initiatives envisioned in our business plan, we will need to raise additional funds through the sale of assets, public or private debt or equity financing, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to raise additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control, including the state of capital markets, the market price of our common stock and the development or prospects for development of competitive technology by others. Sufficient additional financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that would result in further dilution to the current owners of our common stock. Our future expenditures on our programs are subject to many uncertainties, including whether our product candidates will be developed or commercialized with a partner or independently. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: ·the costs of seeking regulatory approval for our product candidates, including any nonclinical testing or bioequivalence or clinical studies, process development, scale-up and other manufacturing and stability activities, or other work required to achieve such approval, as well as the timing of such activities and approval; ·the extent to which we invest in or acquire new technologies, product candidates, products or businesses and the development requirements with respect to any acquired programs; ·the scope, prioritization and number of development and/or commercialization programs we pursue and the rate of progress and costs with respect to such programs; ·the costs related to developing, acquiring and/or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and regulatory compliance capabilities, if we commercialize any of our product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval without a partner; ·the timing and terms of any collaborative, licensing and other strategic arrangements that we may establish; ·the extent to which we will need to expand our workforce to pursue our business plan, and the costs involved in recruiting, training and incentivizing new employees; ·the effect of competing technological and market developments; and ·the cost involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We believe that we have access to sufficient financial resources with which to fund our operations and those of our subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. However, certain events or actions may shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us, including, without limitation, if we decide to grow our organization in pursuit of development or commercialization activities for our current or newly acquired or developed product candidates, if we incur unexpected expenses, or if Lymphoseek does not generate our expected levels of sales and cash flow. We may also acquire new technologies, product candidates and/or products and the cost to acquire, develop and/or commercialize such new technologies, product candidates and/or products may shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. If our current funds become inadequate, we may not be able to obtain sufficient additional funding for such activities, on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, or the terms of raising such capital are unacceptable, we may have to modify our business plan and/or significantly curtail our planned development activities, acquisition of new product candidates and other operations. 33 Our ability to raise capital may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. Our ability to raise additional capital through the sale and issuance of our equity securities may be limited by, among other things, current Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) and NYSE MKT rules and regulations. Our capital raising plans include primary offerings of equity securities using a “shelf” registration on Form S-3, which typically enables an issuer to raise additional capital on a more timely and cost effective basis than through other means, such as registration of a securities offering under a Form S-1 registration statement. Under current Commission rules and regulations, to be eligible to use a Form S-3 registration statement for primary offerings without restriction as to the amount of securities to be sold and issued, an issuer must, among other requirements, have outstanding common equity with a market value of at least $75 million held by non-affiliates. Although we currently have outstanding common equity with a market value of significantly more than $75 million held by non-affiliates, if we file a “shelf” Form S-3 registration statement at a time when the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or public float, is less than $75 million (calculated as set forth in Form S-3 and Commission rules and regulations), the amount we could raise through primary offerings of our securities in any 12-month period using the Form S-3 registration statement may be limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. Moreover, the market value of all securities sold by us under a Form S-3 registration statement during the prior 12 months may be subtracted from that amount to determine the amount we can then raise under the Form S-3 registration statement. The Commission’s rules and regulations require that we periodically re-evaluate the value of our public float. If, at a re-evaluation date, our public float is less than $75 million, the amount we could raise through primary offerings of our securities in any 12-month period using a Form S-3 registration statement would be subject to the one-third of public float limitation described above. In addition, under current Commission rules and regulations, if our public float is less than $75 million or if we seek to register a resale offering (i.e., an offering of our securities by persons other than us), we must, among other requirements, maintain our listing with the NYSE MKT or have our common stock listed and registered on another national securities exchange in order to be eligible to use a Form S-3 registration statement for any primary or resale offering. Alternative means of raising capital through sales of our securities, including through the use of a Form S-1 registration statement, may be more costly and time-consuming. Currently, our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT. The NYSE MKT will review the appropriateness of continued listing of any issuer that falls below the exchange’s continued listing standards. For additional information regarding this risk, see the risk factor below titled “Our failure to maintain continued compliance with the listing requirements of the NYSE MKT exchange could result in the delisting of our common stock.” If our common stock were delisted from the NYSE MKT, our ability to raise capital on terms and conditions we deem acceptable, if at all, may be materially impaired. Our ability to timely raise sufficient additional capital also may be limited by the NYSE MKT’s requirements relating to stockholder approval for transactions involving the issuance of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. For instance, the NYSE MKT requires that we obtain stockholder approval of any transaction involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value, which (together with sales by our officers, directors and principal stockholders) equals 20% or more of our presently outstanding common stock, unless the transaction is considered a “public offering” by the NYSE MKT staff. Based on our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2013 and the average closing price of $3.11 over the thirty trading days preceding February 28, 2013, we could not raise more than approximately $70 million without stockholder approval, unless the transaction is deemed a public offering or does not involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. However, certain prior sales by us may be aggregated with any offering we may propose in the near-term, further limiting the amount we could raise in any future offering that is not considered a public offering by the NYSE MKT staff and would involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. The NYSE MKT will also require stockholder approval if the issuance or potential issuance of additional shares will be considered by the exchange staff to result in a change of control of Navidea. 34 Obtaining stockholder approval is a costly and time-consuming process. If we are required to obtain stockholder approval, we would expect to spend substantial additional money and resources. In addition, seeking stockholder approval would delay our receipt of otherwise available capital, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our current business strategy, and there is no guarantee our stockholders ultimately would approve a proposed transaction. A public offering under the NYSE MKT rules typically involves broadly announcing the proposed transaction, which often has the effect of depressing the issuer’s stock price. Accordingly, the price at which we could sell our securities in a public offering may be less and the dilution existing stockholders experience may in turn be greater than if we were able to raise capital through other means. There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. Our existing and future preferred stock, warrants or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock may contain adjustment provisions that could increase the number of shares issuable upon exercise, conversion or exchange, as the case may be, and decrease the exercise, conversion or exchange price. The market price of our shares of common stock or preferred stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market, the triggering of any such adjustment provisions or the perception that such sales could occur in the future. Our indebtedness imposes significant restrictions on us, and a default could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. All of our material assets, except our intellectual property, have been pledged as collateral for our borrowings under the Loan and Security Agreement with Hercules Technology II, LP (Hercules). In addition to the security interest in our assets, the Loan and Security Agreement carries substantial covenants that impose significant requirements on us, including, among others, requirements that: ·we pay all principal, interest and other charges on the outstanding balance of the borrowed funds when due; ·we keep reserved out of our authorized shares of common stock sufficient shares to satisfy our obligation to issue shares on conversion of the debt and the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the Loan and Security Agreement; ·we provide certain financial information and reports to Hercules in a timely manner; and ·we indemnify Hercules against certain liabilities. 35 Additionally, with certain exceptions, the Loan and Security Agreement prohibits us from: ·amending our organizational or governing agreements and documents, entering into any merger or consolidation, dissolving the Company or liquidating its assets, or acquiring all or any substantial part of the business or assets of any other person; ·incurring any indebtedness, capital leases, or contingent obligations outside the ordinary course of business or without prior written approval; ·granting or permitting liens against or security interests in our assets; ·acquiring or making investments in any other person other than permitted investments; ·making any material dispositions of our assets outside the ordinary course of business; or ·declaring or paying any dividends or making any other distributions. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of our operations, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Loan and Security Agreement, permitting Hercules to accelerate the maturity of the debt and to sell the assets securing it. Such actions by Hercules could materially adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition, including causing us to substantially curtail our product development activities. Due to the extension of the PDUFA date for Lymphoseek to September 10, 2012, we did not receive FDA approval of Lymphoseek by the June 30, 2012 deadline established in the Loan and Security Agreement with Hercules, and therefore expect that additional loan proceeds of up to $3 million thereunder will not be available to us under the current terms. In addition, our Loan Agreement with Platinum-Montaur Life Sciences, LLC (Montaur) carries covenants typical for commercial loan agreements, and similar to those contained in the Hercules Loan and Security Agreement, that impose significant requirements on us. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of our operations, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Loan Agreement, permitting Montaur to terminate our ability to obtain additional draws under the Loan Agreement and accelerate the maturity of the debt. Such actions by Montaur could materially adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition, including causing us to substantially curtail our product development activities. Shares of common stock are equity securities and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests. This means that our common stock ranks junior to our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, to our indebtedness and to all creditor claims and other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims on us, including claims in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding. Our existing indebtedness and preferred stock restrict payment of dividends on our common stock, and future indebtedness and preferred stock may restrict payments of dividends on our common stock. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest customarily are payable on specified due dates, in the case of our common stock, (i) dividends are payable only when and if declared by our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of our board of directors, and (ii) as a corporation, we are restricted to making dividend payments and redemption payments out of legally available assets. We have never paid a dividend on our common stock and have no current intention to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, our common stock places no restrictions on our business or operations or on our ability to incur indebtedness or engage in any transactions, subject only to the voting rights available to shareholders generally. 36 The global financial crisis and continuing federal budget deadlock may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and may further limit our ability to raise additional funds. The ongoing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or continue to worsen. In particular, our ability to access the capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The continuing federal budget deadlock not only may adversely affect financial markets, but could also delay or reduce research grant funding and adversely affect operations of government agencies that regulate us, including the FDA, potentially causing delays in obtaining key regulatory approvals. Our failure to maintain continued compliance with the listing requirements of the NYSE MKT exchange could result in the delisting of our common stock. Our common stock has been listed on the NYSE MKT since February 2011. The rules of NYSE MKT provide that shares be delisted from trading in the event the financial condition and/or operating results of the Company appear to be unsatisfactory, the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the common stock has become so reduced as to make further dealings on the NYSE MKT inadvisable, the Company has sold or otherwise disposed of its principal operating assets, or has ceased to be an operating company, or the Company has failed to comply with its listing agreements with the Exchange. For example, the NYSE MKT may consider suspending trading in, or removing the listing of, securities of an issuer that has stockholders’ equity of less than $6.0 million if such issuer has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $1.4 million. However, the NYSE MKT will not normally consider removing from the list securities of an issuer that fails to meet these requirements if the issuer has (1) total value of market capitalization of at least $50,000,000; or total assets and revenue of $50,000,000 each in its last fiscal year, or in two of its last three fiscal years; and (2) the issuer has at least 1,100,000 shares publicly held, a market value of publicly held shares of at least $15,000,000 and 400 round lot shareholders. Based on the number of outstanding shares of our common stock, recent trading price of that stock, and number of round lot holders, we believe that we meet these exception criteria and that our common stock will not be delisted as a result of our failure to meet the minimum stockholders' equity requirement for continued listing. We cannot assure you that the Company will continue to meet these and other requirements necessary to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NYSE MKT. For example, we may determine to grow our organization or product pipeline or pursue development or other activities at levels or on timelines that reduces our stockholders’ equity below the level required to maintain compliance with NYSE MKT continued listing standards. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE MKT likely would reduce the trading volume and liquidity in our common stock and may lead to decreases in the trading price of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock may also materially impair our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, which is critical to the execution of our current business strategy. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile due to several factors that will continue to affect the price of our stock. Our common stock traded as low as $2.14 per share and as high as $4.77 per share during the 12-month period ended February 28, 2013. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by the Company and by stockholders, and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders of warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. 37 Some additional factors which could lead to the volatility of our common stock include: ·price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large or of companies in our industry which do not relate to our operating performance; ·changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts; ·FDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; ·financing arrangements we may enter that require the issuance of a significant number of shares in relation to the number of shares currently outstanding; ·public concern as to the safety of products that we or others develop; ·activities of short sellers in our stock; and ·fluctuations in market demand for and supply of our products. The realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced substantial decline in market price. Moreover, regulatory entities often undertake investigations of investor transactions in securities that experience volatility following an announcement of a significant event or condition. Any such litigation brought against us or any such investigation involving our investors could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. An investor’s ability to trade our common stock may be limited by trading volume. Historically, the trading volume for our common stock has been relatively limited. The average daily trading volume for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board for the 12-month period ended January 31, 2011 was approximately 194,000 shares. Following the listing of our common stock on the NYSE MKT on February 10, 2011, trading in our common stock has been more active. During the 12-month period beginning on March 1, 2012 and ending on February 28, 2013, the average daily trading volume for our common stock on the NYSE MKT was approximately 850,000 shares. We cannot, however, assure you that this trading volume will be consistently maintained in the future. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on the NYSE MKT exchange. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by market conditions affecting the stock markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations on the NYSE MKT. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our shares of common stock, and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, stockholders will only benefit from owning common stock if it appreciates. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, with respect to our common stock, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Due to our intent to retain any future earnings rather than pay cash dividends on our common stock and applicable laws, regulations and contractual obligations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and there is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value. 38 We may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our business may suffer if we do not. Our business has experienced a number of successes and faced several challenges in recent years that have resulted in several significant changes in our strategy and business plan, including the shifting of resources to support our current development initiatives. Our management will need to remain flexible to support our business model over the next few years. However, losing members of the Navidea management team could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain technical and management personnel with expertise and experience in the pharmaceutical industry, and the acquisition of additional product candidates may require us to acquire additional highly qualified personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology industry is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining the requisite personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel, we will suffer diminished chances of future success. If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. While we periodically are engaged in discussions regarding potential business or product acquisitions, we currently have no binding agreements to consummate any material acquisitions. If we pursue any such transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business and assets may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the trading price of our securities. We may be adversely affected if our controls over external financial reporting fail or are circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. In addition, we are required under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting. If it were to be determined that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, such shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively affect the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The effect of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors and our board committees and as executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 39 