ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We do not expect to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses, a substantial decline in working capital and negative cash flow from operations for a number of years. We have also experienced a substantial reduction in our cash and short term investments, which declined from $17.0 million at December 31, 2000 to $406,000 at December 31, 2006. We also had a shareholders’ deficiency of $964,000 December 31, 2006. Infineer has continued to incur operating losses and negative cash flow. During 2004 and 2005, the Company contributed additional capital to Infineer of $225,000 and $150,000, respectively. It is likely that Infineer will require additional capital and at the present time the Company does not have the financial resources to provide such support. Though Infineer decreased its operating losses in 2006, given the Company’s lack of available resources, continued operating losses and the bank overdraft, the Company has begun to consider various alternatives. In 2006, with the assistance of an investment banker, the Company commenced an assessment of the value of Infineer, developed an information memorandum and obtained offers for Infineer’s potential for sale. This process concluded without a viable offer for the business. The Board of Directors has not decided whether to continue with the disposition effort. It is therefore uncertain whether an acceptable offer will materialize or whether any such sale will ultimately be consummated. Any such determination to dispose of Infineer would depend upon, among other things, the amount of potential proceeds of any such sale and require the approval of the Company’s shareholders. Management believes that existing cash and short-term investments will not be sufficient to permit the Company to continue operating past the second quarter of 2007 and the Company will likely cease operations. However, at the time of the issuance of this Form 10-K no formal plan of liquidation has been discussed with or approved by the Board of Directors. If a sale of Infineer is consummated, the Company will not thereafter have any ongoing business operations. In either case, the Company does not expect that any funds will be available for distribution to its shareholders. Accordingly, it is unlikely that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The independent auditors’ reports on the our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 contain emphasis paragraphs concerning substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Stockholders will experience dilution upon the exercise of options. On July 21, 2006, in connection with his employment agreement, Joseph Sarachek, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, was granted options to purchase 2,837,075 shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share (“Common Stock”) for an exercise price of $0.0279 per share. All of these options will vest upon the Company's consummation of a sale, restructuring or other similar transaction. Additionally, upon the consummation of any such transaction, Mr. Sarachek will be granted additional options which (when taken together with the 2,837,075 options already granted to Mr. Sarachek) will represent the right to acquire 10% of the total outstanding shares of the Company's Common Stock, calculated on a fully diluted basis. If Mr. Sarachek exercises these options, the Company's stockholders will experience dilution in the net tangible book value of the Company's Common Stock, and the proceeds that stockholders will receive from any sale, restructuring or other similar transaction consummated by the Company. 6 The Company has very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent on the efforts of a small management team; the loss of any key executives could adversely effect the Company. The Company has a small executive management team consisting of Joseph Sarachek, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, and Stephen Spitzer, the Company's acting Principal Financial Officer. The Company has an employment arrangement in place with Mr. Sarachek, but neither he nor Mr. Spitzer are legally bound to remain employed for any specific term. Given the financial condition of the Company, the Company does not anticipate hiring additional executive managers, and the Company's Board of Directors does not anticipate electing additional executive officers. In the event that the services of either of the Company's executive managers were no longer available, the Company and its business could be adversely affected. The Company does not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to its executive management team. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 