ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We do not expect to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses, a substantial decline in working capital and negative cash flow from operations for a number of years. We have also experienced a substantial reduction in our cash and short term investments, which declined from $17.0 million at December 31, 2000 to $1.1 million at December 31, 2005. We also had a shareholders’ deficiency of $7.2 million December 31, 2005. Infineer has continued to incur operating losses and negative cash flow. During 2003, 2004 and 2005, we contributed additional capital to Infineer of $70,000, $225,000 and $150,000, respectively. It is likely that Infineer will require additional capital and we do not have the financial resources to provide such support. Given our lack of available resources, continued operating losses and debt position, we have begun to consider various alternatives. In 2006, with the assistance of an investment banker, we commenced an assessment of the value of Infineer, developed an information memorandum and have begun to obtain offers for Infineer’s potential for sale. This process is ongoing and no firm offers have been received to date. A determination whether to consummate such a sale has not been made nor is it certain whether an acceptable offer will materialize. Any such determination would depend upon, among other things, the amount of potential proceeds of any such sale and satisfactory arrangements with the PBGC regarding the use of those proceeds, pursuant to the Company’s obligations to the PBGC described elsewhere herein. 5 Absent a sale of Infineer and satisfaction of any obligation to the PBGC created by such sale, management believes that existing cash and short-term investments will not be sufficient to permit us to continue operating past the third quarter of 2006 and we would likely seek bankruptcy protection or otherwise cease operations. If a sale of Infineer is consummated, we will not thereafter have any ongoing business operations. In either case, we do not expect that any funds will be available for distribution to its shareholders. Accordingly, it is unlikely that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The independent auditors’ reports on the our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 contain emphasis paragraphs concerning substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We have obligations to the PBGC that we may not be able to satisfy. We sponsored a defined benefit pension plan which was frozen in 1993. In January 2003, we filed a notice with the PBGC seeking a “distress termination” of that Plan. Pursuant to the Agreement for Appointment of Trustee and Termination of Plan between the PBGC and us effective September 30, 2004, the PBGC proceeded to terminate the Plan and was appointed as the Plan’s trustee. As a result, the PBGC has assumed responsibility for paying the obligations to Plan participants. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement effective September 23, 2004 between the PBGC and us, we were liable to the PBGC for the unfunded guaranteed benefit payable by the PBGC to Plan participants in the amount of $7.5 million. We satisfied this liability by issuing the Note dated September 23, 2004 payable to the PBGC with a face amount of $7.5 million. Pursuant to the Security Agreement and Pledge Agreement, both dated September 23, 2004, the Note is secured by (a) all of our presently owned or hereafter acquired real or personal property and rights to property and (b) the common and preferred stock of Infineer and TecSec we own. The Note matures on September 23, 2011. The first payment will be equal to $1.0 million and will become due 30 days after we have received a total of $4.0 million in Net Recoveries. Thereafter, on each anniversary of the first payment, we are required to pay the PBGC an amount equal to 25% of the Net Recoveries in excess of $4.0 million (less the sum of all prior payments made in accordance with this sentence in prior years). As of December 31, 2005, Net Recoveries was approximately $3.6 million. The Company expects to realize additional Net Recoveries of approximately $270,000 in 2006 relating to the release of certain funds currently held in escrow. If we default under the Settlement Agreement, the PBGC may declare the outstanding amount of the Note to be immediately due and payable, proceed with foreclosure of the liens granted in favor of the PBGC and exercise any other rights available under applicable law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 