risk factors, together with the other information in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes, before you decide to buy our common stock. Our most significant risks and uncertainties are described below; however, they are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment therein. We have suffered significant operating losses for several years in our history and we may not be able to again achieve profitability. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $148.8 million and had an overall deficit in stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2008. Although we were profitable in 2000 and in 2001, we incurred substantial losses in the years prior to that, and again in 2002 and subsequent years. The deficit resulted because we expended more money in the course of researching, developing and enhancing our technology and products and establishing our marketing and administrative organizations than we generated in revenues. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in the foreseeable future, primarily related to the completion of development and commercialization of Lymphoseek, but also potentially related to RIGS and our device product lines. As a result, we are sustaining substantial operating and net losses, and it is possible that we will never be able to sustain or develop the revenue levels necessary to again attain profitability. Our products and product candidates may not achieve the broad market acceptance they need in order to be a commercial success. Widespread use of our handheld gamma detection devices is currently limited to one surgical procedure, SLNB, used in the diagnosis and treatment of two primary types of cancer: melanoma and breast cancer. While the adoption of SLNB within the breast and melanoma indications appears to be widespread, expansion of SLNB to other indications such as head and neck, colorectal and prostate cancers is likely dependent on a better lymphatic tissue targeting agent than is currently available. Without expanded indications in which to apply SLNB, it is likely that gamma detection devices will eventually reach market saturation. Our efforts and those of our marketing and distribution partners may not result in significant demand for our products, and the current demand for our products may decline. To date, our efforts to place Cardiosonix’s Quantix products have met with limited success. The long-term commercial success of the Quantix product line will require much more widespread acceptance of our blood flow measurement products than we have experienced to date. Widespread acceptance of blood flow measurement would represent a significant change in current medical practice patterns. Other cardiac monitoring procedures, such as pulmonary artery catheterization, are generally accepted in the medical community and have a long standard of use. It is possible that the Quantix product line will never achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to become a commercial success. Our radiopharmaceutical product candidates, Lymphoseek and RIGScan CR, are still in the process of development, and even if we are successful in commercializing them, we cannot assure you that they will obtain significant market acceptance. We may have difficulty raising additional capital, which could deprive us of necessary resources. We expect to continue to devote significant capital resources to fund research and development and to maintain existing and secure new manufacturing capacity. In order to support the initiatives envisioned in our business plan, we may need to raise additional funds through the sale of assets, public or private debt or equity financing, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to raise additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control, including the state of capital markets, the market price of our common stock and the development or prospects for development of competitive technology by others. Because our common stock is not listed on a major stock market, many investors may not be willing or allowed to purchase it or may demand steep discounts. Sufficient additional financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that would result in further dilution to the current owners of our common stock. 21 We believe that we have access to sufficient financial resources with which to fund our operations or those of our subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. We expect to raise additional capital during 2009 through existing financing facilities already available to us in order to continue executing on our current business plan. The continuation of the current worldwide financial crisis and depressed stock market valuations may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, either under facilities in place or from new sources of capital. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, closing on financing under already agreed to terms, or the terms of raising such capital are unacceptable, we may have to modify our business plan and/or significantly curtail our planned development activities and other operations. In December 2006, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Fusion Capital, an Illinois limited liability company, to sell $6.0 million of our common stock over a 24-month period which ended on November 21, 2008. Through November 21, 2008, we sold Fusion Capital under the agreement 7,568,671 shares for proceeds of $1.9 million. In December 2008, we entered into an amendment to the agreement which gave us a right to sell an additional $6.0 million of our common stock to Fusion Capital before March 1, 2011, along with the $4.1 million of the unsold balance of the $6.0 million we originally had the right to sell to Fusion Capital under the original agreement. After giving effect to this amendment, the remaining aggregate amount of our common stock we can sell to Fusion Capital is $10.1 million, and we have reserved a total of 10,654,000 shares of our common stock for sale under the amended agreement. Our right to make sales under the agreement is limited to $50,000 every two business days, unless our stock price equals or exceeds $0.30 per share, in which case we can sell greater amounts to Fusion Capital as the price of our common stock increases. Fusion Capital does not have the right or any obligation to purchase any shares on any business day that the market price of our common stock is less than $0.20 per share. Assuming all 10,654,000 shares are sold, the selling price per share would have to average approximately $0.94 for us to receive the full $10.1 million remaining proceeds under the agreement as amended. Assuming we sell to Fusion Capital all 10,654,000 shares at a sale price of $0.51 per share (the closing sale price of the common stock on March 16, 2009), we would only receive $5.4 million under the agreement. Under the agreement, we have the right but not the obligation to sell more than the 10,654,000 shares to Fusion Capital. As of the date hereof, we do not currently have any plans or intent to sell to Fusion Capital any shares beyond the 10,654,000 shares. However, if we elect to sell more than the 10,654,000 shares, we must first register any additional shares we may elect to sell to Fusion Capital under the Securities Act before we can sell such additional shares. The extent to which we rely on Fusion Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources, such as through the sale of our products. To the extent that we are unable to make sales to Fusion Capital to meet our capital needs, or to the extent that we decide not to make such sales because of excessive dilution or other reasons, and if we are unable to generate sufficient revenues from sales of our products, we will need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we are able to access the full $10.1 million potentially remaining under the agreement with Fusion Capital, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. 22 Clinical trials for our radiopharmaceutical product candidates will be lengthy and expensive and their outcome is uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. Conducting clinical trials is a time consuming, expensive and uncertain process and may take years to complete. During 2008, we successfully completed a Phase 2 clinical trial for our most advanced radiopharmaceutical product candidate, Lymphoseek. We are in the process of completing first of two pivotal Phase 3 trials for this product in breast cancer or melanoma and have a second trial pending in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. We have recently obtained approval from EMEA of a Phase 3 clinical protocol for our next radiopharmaceutical candidate, RIGScan CR and are preparing to approach FDA to obtain similar clearance. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. Frequently, drugs that have shown promising results in preclinical or early clinical trials subsequently fail to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval. At any time during the clinical trials, we, the participating institutions, FDA or EMEA might delay or halt any clinical trials for our product candidates for various reasons, including: · ineffectiveness of the product candidate; · discovery of unacceptable toxicities or side effects; · development of disease resistance or other physiological factors; · delays in patient enrollment; or · other reasons that are internal to the businesses of our potential collaborative partners, which reasons they may not share with us. While we have achieved some level of success in our recent Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials for Lymphoseek, the results of these clinical trials, as well as pending and future trials, are subject to review and interpretation by various regulatory bodies during the regulatory review process and may ultimately fail to demonstrate the safety or effectiveness of our product candidates to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approval or such that commercialization of our product candidates is worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates could severely harm our business. If we fail to obtain collaborative partners, or those we obtain fail to perform their obligations or discontinue clinical trials for particular product candidates, our ability to develop and market potential products could be severely limited. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our product candidates depends, in large part, upon the formation of collaborative arrangements. Collaborations may allow us to: · generate cash flow and revenue; · offset some of the costs associated with our internal research and development, preclinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing; · seek and obtain regulatory approvals faster than we could on our own; and, · successfully commercialize existing and future product candidates. We recently executed an agreement with Cardinal Health for the distribution of Lymphoseek in the United States. We do not currently have collaborative agreements covering Lymphoseek in other areas of the world or for RIGScan CR or ACT. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in securing collaborative partners for other markets or radiopharmaceutical products, or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms for such arrangements. The development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates will depend substantially on the efforts of collaborative partners, and if we fail to secure or maintain successful collaborative arrangements, or if our partners fail to perform their obligations, our development, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing activities may be delayed, scaled back or suspended. 23 We rely on third parties for the worldwide marketing and distribution of our gamma detection and blood flow measurement devices, who may not be successful in selling our products. We currently distribute our gamma detection devices in most global markets through two partners who are solely responsible for marketing and distributing these products. The partners assume direct responsibility for business risks related to credit, currency exchange, foreign tax laws or tariff and trade regulation. Our blood flow products are marketed and sold in the U.S. and a number of foreign markets through other distribution partners specific to those markets. Further, we have had only limited success to date in marketing or selling our Quantix line of blood flow products. While we believe that our distribution partners intend to continue to aggressively market our products, we cannot assure you that the distribution partners will succeed in marketing our products on a global basis. We may not be able to maintain satisfactory arrangements with our marketing and distribution partners, who may not devote adequate resources to selling our products. If this happens, we may not be able to successfully market our products, which would decrease our revenues. Our radiopharmaceutical product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations and we may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We may not receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our Lymphoseek and RIGScan product candidates, which could cause our business to be severely harmed. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. If our potential products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. None of our product candidates has been approved for sale in the United States or in any foreign market. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, complex, expensive and uncertain. Securing FDA clearance to market requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to FDA for each indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The approval process may take many years to complete and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. In light of the limited regulatory history of monoclonal antibody-based therapeutics, regulatory approvals for our products may not be obtained without lengthy delays, if at all. Any FDA or other regulatory approvals of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. The effect of government regulation may be to: · delay marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time; · limit the indicated uses for which potential products may be marketed; · impose costly requirements on our activities; and · provide competitive advantage to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We may encounter delays or rejections in the regulatory approval process because of additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our product candidates or us. Outside the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving clearances from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process includes risks similar to those associated with FDA approval process. Our radiopharmaceutical product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval. If we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of our products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory clearance to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be conditioned on us conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the indicated uses included in our labeling. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, the manufacturer of the product and its facilities will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing clearance, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. 24 If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: · restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; · warning letters; · civil or criminal penalties; · fines; · injunctions; · product seizures or detentions; · import bans; · voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; · total or partial suspension of production; and · refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. Our existing products are highly regulated and we could face severe problems if we do not comply with all regulatory requirements in the global markets in which these products are sold. FDA regulates our gamma detection and blood flow measurement products in the United States. Foreign countries also subject these products to varying government regulations. In addition, these regulatory authorities may impose limitations on the use of our products. FDA enforcement policy strictly prohibits the marketing of FDA cleared medical devices for unapproved uses. Within the European Union, our products are required to display the CE Mark in order to be sold. We have obtained FDA clearance to market and European certification to display the CE Mark on our current line of gamma detection systems and on initial blood flow product, the Quantix/OR. We may not be able to obtain clearance to market any new products in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to comply with these and other current and emerging regulatory requirements in the global markets in which our products are sold could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal of the government to grant pre-market clearance for devices, withdrawal of clearances, and criminal prosecution. We rely on third parties to manufacture our products and our business will suffer if they do not perform. We rely on independent contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our current neoprobe GDS line of gamma detection systems and for our Quantix line of blood flow monitoring products. Our business will suffer if our contract manufacturers have production delays or quality problems. Furthermore, medical device manufacturers are subject to the quality system regulations of FDA, international quality standards, and other regulatory requirements. If our contractors do not operate in accordance with regulatory requirements and quality standards, our business will suffer. We use or rely on components and services used in our devices that are provided by sole source suppliers. The qualification of additional or replacement vendors is time consuming and costly. If a sole source supplier has significant problems supplying our products, our sales and revenues will be hurt until we find a new source of supply. In addition, our distribution agreement with EES for gamma detection devices contains failure to supply provisions, which, if triggered, could have a significant negative impact on our business. 25 We may be unable to establish the pharmaceutical manufacturing capabilities necessary to develop and commercialize our potential products. We do not have our own manufacturing facility for the manufacture of the radiopharmaceutical compounds necessary for clinical testing or commercial sale. We intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficiently large quantities of drug materials that are and will be needed for clinical trials and commercialization of our potential products. Third-party manufacturers may not be able to meet our needs with respect to timing, quantity or quality of materials. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of needed materials on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers, our clinical trials may be delayed, thereby delaying the submission of product candidates for regulatory approval and the market introduction and subsequent commercialization of our potential products. Any such delays may lower our revenues and potential profitability. We may develop our manufacturing capacity in part by expanding our current facilities or building new facilities. Either of these activities would require substantial additional funds and we would need to hire and train significant numbers of employees to staff these facilities. We may not be able to develop manufacturing facilities that are sufficient to produce drug materials for clinical trials or commercial use. We and any third-party manufacturers that we may use must continually adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations enforced by FDA through its facilities inspection program. If our facilities or the facilities of third-party manufacturers cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, FDA will not grant approval to our product candidates. In complying with these regulations and foreign regulatory requirements, we and any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort on production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our potential products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If we or any third-party manufacturer with whom we may contract fail to maintain regulatory compliance, we or the third party may be subject to fines and/or manufacturing operations may be suspended. Unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives applicable to our radiopharmaceutical products and product candidates could limit our potential product revenue. The regulations governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed and, in many of these countries, the pricing review period begins only after approval is granted. In some countries, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. Although we monitor these regulations, our product candidates are currently in the development stage and we will not be able to assess the impact of price regulations for at least several years. As a result, we may obtain regulatory approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that may delay the commercial launch of the product and may negatively impact the revenues we are able to derive from sales in that country. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. In the United States, comprehensive programs have been proposed that seek to increase access to healthcare for the uninsured, to control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy and to use healthcare reimbursement policies to balance the federal budget. We expect that Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess healthcare proposals, and public debate of these issues will likely continue. We cannot predict which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted and when they might be adopted. Other countries also are considering healthcare reform. Significant changes in healthcare systems could have a substantial impact on the manner in which we conduct our business and could require us to revise our strategies. The resale of our common stock sold to investors in private placements may cause dilution and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Over the past few years, we completed various financings in which we issued common stock, convertible notes, warrants and other securities convertible into common stock to certain private investors. The terms of these transactions require that we file registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which the investors may resell to the public common stock acquired in these transactions, as well as common stock acquired on the exercise of the warrants and convertible securities held by them. Further, some or all of the common stock sold in these transactions may become eligible for resale without registration under the provisions of Rule 144, upon satisfaction of the holding period and other requirements of the Rule. 26 As described earlier in this Item 1A, as required by our financing arrangements with Fusion Capital, we have filed a registration statement registering for resale a total of 11,500,000 common shares, consisting of (i) 10,654,000 shares which we may sell to Fusion Capital pursuant to the amended common stock purchase agreement, (ii) 360,000 shares issued to Fusion Capital in consideration for its agreement to the amendment; and (iii) 486,000 commitment fee shares to be issued pro rata as we sell the first $4.1 million of common stock under the amended agreement. The number of shares ultimately sold under the registration statement will be dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Fusion Capital under the amended agreement. It is anticipated that these shares will be sold from time to time over a period ending on March 1, 2011, at prices that will fluctuate based on changes in the market price of our common stock over that period. We have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Fusion Capital and the agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. On December 26, 2007, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (SPA) with Platinum-Montaur Life Sciences, LLC (Montaur), pursuant to which we issued Montaur a 10% Series A Convertible Senior Secured Promissory Note in the principal amount of $7,000,000, due December 26, 2011 (the Series A Note) and a five-year Series W warrant to purchase 6,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.32 per share. On April 16, 2008, following receipt by the Company of clearance by FDA to commence a Phase 3 clinical trial for Lymphoseek in patients with breast cancer or melanoma, we amended the SPA and issued Montaur a 10% Series B Convertible Senior Secured Promissory Note in the principal amount of $3,000,000, also due December 26, 2011 (the Series B Note, and hereinafter referred to collectively with the Series A Note as the Montaur Notes), and a five-year Series X warrant to purchase 8,333,333 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.46 per share. Montaur may convert the Series B Note into shares of common stock at the conversion price of $0.36 per share. On December 5, 2008, after the Company had obtained 135 vital blue dye lymph nodes from patients who had completed surgery and the injection of the drug in the Phase 3 clinical trial of Lymphoseek in patients with breast cancer or melanoma, we issued Montaur 3,000 shares of our 8% Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock) and a five-year Series Y warrant (hereinafter referred to collectively with the Series W warrant and Series X warrant as the Montaur Warrants) to purchase 6,000,000 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $0.575 per share, also for an aggregate purchase price of $3,000,000. The Series A Note bears interest at a rate per annum equal to 10%, and is partially convertible at the option of Montaur into common stock at a price of $0.26 per share. The Series B Note also bears interest at a rate per annum equal to 10%, and is convertible into shares of common stock at the conversion price of $0.36 per share. Pursuant to the provisions of the Certificate of Designations, Voting Powers, Preferences, Limitations, Restrictions, and Relative Rights of Series A 8% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Montaur may convert all or any portion of the shares of the Preferred Stock into an aggregate 6,000,000 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment as described in the Certificate of Designations. Pursuant to registration rights of Montaur under the SPA, we have filed a registration statement covering the sale by Montaur of up to up to: (i) 6,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Preferred Stock; (ii) 6,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Series Y warrant; (iii) 3,500,000 shares of common stock issuable as interest and dividends on the Montaur Notes and Preferred Stock; and (iv) 4,666,666 shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series B Note, for a total of 20,166,666 shares. Additionally, we agreed that within thirty-five days of receipt from Montaur of written request therefor, we would prepare and file an additional “resale” registration statement providing for the resale of: (i) the shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series A Note; (ii) the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Series W warrant; (iii) any unregistered shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series B Note. 27 The selling stockholders may sell none, some or all of the shares of common stock acquired from us, as well as common stock acquired on the exercise of the warrants and convertible securities held by them. We have no way of knowing whether or when the selling stockholders will sell these shares. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of these shares at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. We may lose out to larger and better-established competitors. The medical device and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources as well as greater experience in the medical device industry than we have. The particular medical conditions our product lines address can also be addressed by other medical devices, procedures or drugs. Many of these alternatives are widely accepted by physicians and have a long history of use. Physicians may use our competitors’ products and/or our products may not be competitive with other technologies. If these things happen, our sales and revenues will decline. In addition, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with large medical equipment companies to gain access to greater research and development or marketing resources. Competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Our products may be displaced by newer technology. The medical device and biotechnology industries are undergoing rapid and significant technological change. Third parties may succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than those developed or marketed by us, or that would make our technology and products obsolete or non-competitive. Additionally, researchers could develop new surgical procedures and medications that replace or reduce the importance of the procedures that use our products. Accordingly, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes through the development and introduction of new products. We may not have the resources to do this. If our products become obsolete and our efforts to develop new products do not result in any commercially successful products, our sales and revenues will decline. We may not have sufficient legal protection against infringement or loss of our intellectual property, and we may lose rights to our licensed intellectual property if diligence requirements are not met. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to secure and maintain patent protection, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the patents of third parties. While we seek to protect our proprietary positions by filing United States and foreign patent applications for our important inventions and improvements, domestic and foreign patent offices may not issue these patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents or patent applications in the future. Competitors, many of which have significantly more resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our products either in the United States or abroad. In the United States, patent applications are secret until patents are issued, and in foreign countries, patent applications are secret for a time after filing. Publications of discoveries tend to significantly lag the actual discoveries and the filing of related patent applications. Third parties may have already filed applications for patents for products or processes that will make our products obsolete or will limit our patents or invalidate our patent applications. 28 We typically require our employees, consultants, advisers and suppliers to execute confidentiality and assignment of invention agreements in connection with their employment, consulting, advisory, or supply relationships with us. They may breach these agreements and we may not obtain an adequate remedy for breach. Further, third parties may gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop or acquire the same or equivalent information. Agencies of the United States government conducted some of the research activities that led to the development of antibody technology that some of our proposed antibody-based surgical cancer detection products use. When the United States government participates in research activities, it retains rights that include the right to use the technology for governmental purposes under a royalty-free license, as well as rights to use and disclose technical data that could preclude us from asserting trade secret rights in that data and software. The government grants Cardiosonix has received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture blood flow monitoring products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. Cardiosonix received grants from the government of Israel through the OCS of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the financing of a portion of its research and development expenditures associated with our blood flow monitoring products. From 1998 to 2001, Cardiosonix received grants totaling $775,000 from the OCS. The terms of the OCS grants may affect our efforts to transfer manufacturing of products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. In January 2006, the OCS consented to the transfer of manufacturing as long as Neoprobe complies with the terms of the OCS statutes under Israeli law. As long as we maintain at least 10% Israeli content in our blood flow devices, we will pay a royalty rate of 4% on sales of applicable blood flow devices and must repay the OCS a total of $1.2 million in royalties. However, should the amount of Israeli content of our blood flow device products decrease below 10%, the royalty rate could increase to 5% and the total royalty payments due could increase to $2.3 million. This may impair our ability to effectively outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of OCS grants related to other grantees and may further accelerate them in the future. We may lose the license rights to certain in-licensed products if we do not exercise adequate diligence. Our license agreements for Lymphoseek, RIGS, and ACT contain provisions that require that we demonstrate ongoing diligence in the continuing research and development of these potential products. Cira Bio’s rights to certain applications of the ACT technology may be affected by its failure to achieve certain capital raising milestones although no such notices to that effect have been received to date. We have provided information, as required or requested, to the licensors of our technology indicating the steps we have taken to demonstrate our diligence and believe we are adequately doing so to meet the terms and/or intent of our license agreements. However, it is possible that the licensors may not consider our actions adequate in demonstrating such diligence. Should we fail to demonstrate the requisite diligence required by any such agreements or as interpreted by the respective licensors, we may lose our development and commercialization rights for the associated product. We could be damaged by product liability claims. Our products are used or intended to be used in various clinical or surgical procedures. If one of our products malfunctions or a physician misuses it and injury results to a patient or operator, the injured party could assert a product liability claim against our company. We currently have product liability insurance with a $10 million per occurrence limit, which we believe is adequate for our current activities. However, we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of the liabilities resulting from a product liability claim, and we might not have sufficient funds available to pay any claims over the limits of our insurance. Because personal injury claims based on product liability in a medical setting may be very large, an underinsured or an uninsured claim could financially damage our company. 29 We may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our business may suffer if we do not. Our business has experienced challenges the past two years that have resulted in several significant changes in our strategy and business plan, including the shifting of resources to support our current product initiatives and downsizings to what we consider to be the minimal support structure necessary to operate a publicly traded company. Our management will need to remain flexible to support our business model over the next few years. However, losing members of the Neoprobe management team could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain technical and management personnel with expertise and experience in the medical device business. The competition for qualified personnel in the medical device industry is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining the requisite personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel, we will suffer diminished chances of future success. Our secured indebtedness imposes significant restrictions on us, and a default could cause us to cease operations. All of our material assets have been pledged as collateral for the $10 million in principal amount of our Series A and Series B Convertible Notes issued to Montaur, and a $1 million in principal amount Series B Convertible Note issued to our CEO and members of his family dated July 3, 2007, as amended December 26, 2007 (collectively, the Notes). In addition to the security interest in our assets, the Notes carry substantial covenants that impose significant requirements on us, including, among others, requirements that: · we pay all principal by December 26, 2011; · we use the proceeds from the sale of the Notes only for permitted purposes, such as Lymphoseek development and general corporate purposes; · we keep reserved out of our authorized shares of common stock sufficient shares to satisfy our obligation to issue shares on conversion of the Notes and the exercise of the warrants issued in connection with the sale of the Notes; and · we indemnify the purchasers of the Notes against certain liabilities. Additionally, with certain exceptions, the Notes prohibit us from: · amending our organizational or governing agreements and documents, entering into any merger or consolidation, dissolving the company or liquidating its assets, or acquiring all or any substantial part of the business or assets of any other person; · engaging in transactions with any affiliate; · entering into any agreement inconsistent with our obligations under the Notes and related agreements; · incurring any indebtedness, capital leases, or contingent obligations outside the ordinary course of business; · granting or permitting liens against or security interests in our assets; · making any material dispositions of our assets outside the ordinary course of business; · declaring or paying any dividends or making any other restricted payments; or · making any loans to or investments in other persons outside of the ordinary course of business. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by changes in our business condition or results of our operations, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the Notes, permitting the holders of the Notes to accelerate their maturity and to sell the assets securing them. Such actions by the holders of the Notes could cause us to cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection. 30 Our common stock is traded over the counter, which may deprive stockholders of the full value of their shares. Our common stock is quoted via the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB). As such, our common stock may have fewer market makers, lower trading volumes and larger spreads between bid and ask prices than securities listed on an exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market. These factors may result in higher price volatility and less market liquidity for the common stock. A low market price may severely limit the potential market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently trading at a price substantially below $5.00 per share, subjecting trading in the stock to certain SEC rules requiring additional disclosures by broker-dealers. These rules generally apply to any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price share of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions (a "penny stock"). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and institutional or wealthy investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock. The price of our common stock has been highly volatile due to several factors that will continue to affect the price of our stock. Our common stock traded as low as $0.29 per share and as high as $0.87 per share during the 12-month period ended December 31, 2008. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by the company and by stockholders, and subsequent sale of common stock by the holders of warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Some additional factors which could lead to the volatility of our common stock include: · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; · financing arrangements we may enter that require the issuance of a significant number of shares in relation to the number of shares currently outstanding; · public concern as to the safety of products that we or others develop; and · fluctuations in market demand for and supply of our products. 31 An investor’s ability to trade our common stock may be limited by trading volume. Generally, the trading volume for our common stock has been relatively limited. A consistently active trading market for our common stock may not occur on the OTCBB. The average daily trading volume for our common stock on the OTCBB for the 12-month period ended December 31, 2008, was approximately 118,000 shares. Some provisions of our organizational and governing documents may have the effect of deterring third parties from making takeover bids for control of our company or may be used to hinder or delay a takeover bid. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the creation and issuance of “blank check” preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may divide this stock into one or more series and set their rights. The Board of Directors may, without prior stockholder approval, issue any of the shares of “blank check” preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which could adversely affect the relative voting power or other rights of the common stock. Preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a take-over of our company. If we issue “blank check” preferred stock, it could have a dilutive effect upon our common stock. This would decrease the chance that our stockholders would realize a premium over market price for their shares of common stock as a result of a takeover bid. Because we will not pay dividends in the foreseeable future, stockholders will only benefit from owning common stock if it appreciates. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our growth. Accordingly, any potential investor who anticipates the need for current dividends from his investment should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 