Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Relating to Dreams, Inc. Our line of credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions which may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and pursue business opportunities, thereby limiting our growth. Our line of credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, without the prior written waivers from our Bank, may limit our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional debt; • Create or permit certain liens, other than customary and ordinary liens; • Sell assets other than in the ordinary course of our business; • Create or permit restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; and • Consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. In addition, our line of credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants and maintain the collateral value of our borrowing base. We may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under our line of credit facility could result in a default. In the event of a default of our obligations under our line of credit or the security agreement, Comerica Bank may, among other things, seize and sell all of our assets or appoint a receiver for our operations. A significant portion of our growth has come from acquisitions, and we plan to make more acquisitions in the future as part of our continuing growth strategy. This growth strategy subjects us to numerous risks. A very important aspect of our growth strategy has been and is to pursue strategic acquisitions of related businesses that we believe can expand or complement our business. Acquisitions require significant capital resources and divert management’s attention from our existing business. Acquisitions also entail an inherent risk that we could become subject to contingent or other liabilities, including liabilities arising from events or conduct pre-dating our acquisition of a business that were not known to us at the time of acquisition. We may also incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business than we 8 Table of Contents had anticipated at the time of its purchase. In addition, acquisitions may create unanticipated tax and accounting problems, including the possibility that we might be required to write-off goodwill which we have paid for in connection with an acquisition. A key element of our acquisition strategy has been to retain management of acquired businesses to operate the acquired business for us. Many of these individuals maintain important contacts with clients of the acquired business. Our inability to retain these individuals could materially impair the value of an acquired business. Our failure to successfully accomplish future acquisitions or to manage and integrate completed or future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that: • We will identify suitable acquisition candidates; • We can consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms; • We can successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations or successfully manage the operations of any acquired business; or • We will be able to retain an acquired company’s significant client relationship, goodwill and key personnel or otherwise realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. As a result of competition, and the strength of some of our competitors in the market, we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our services and products are highly competitive. We compete with numerous local, regional and national companies, including certain or our suppliers, some of which possess substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than us. Our retail stores compete with other retail establishments, including our franchise stores and other stores that sell sports related merchandise, memorabilia and similar products. Our e-commerce business competes with a variety of online and multi-channel competitors including mass merchants, fan shops, major sporting goods chains and online retailers. Mounted Memories, or MMI, competes with several major companies and numerous individuals in the sports and celebrity memorabilia industry. We also compete with various manufacturers of acrylic cases. We may not be able to compete successfully, particularly as we seek to enter into new markets. 9 Table of Contents We have grown rapidly, and our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on us. We have grown rapidly in the past few years, including through acquisitions. Businesses that grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. Our rapid growth has placed and is expected to continue to place significant demands on our management, on our accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. Although we have expanded our management, we need to continue recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. In addition, we will need to continue to improve our financial, accounting, information and other systems in order to effectively manage our growth. We will be required in 2008 to comply with the new annual internal control certification pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related SEC rules. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully, or that our financial, accounting, information or other systems will be able to successfully accommodate our growth or that we will be able to timely comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our failure to meet these challenges could materially impair our business. If we are required to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $13.9 million, which constituted approximately 27% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of our goodwill or other intangible assets, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising rents and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable leases on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase the number of our company-owned retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. We may not have stores or sites available to us for lease or available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising rents in malls and other retail shopping areas could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Our business depends on anticipating consumer tastes and identifying, forming and maintaining relationships with popular athletes. A significant portion of our revenues is generated by the sale of sports memorabilia and sports licensed products. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in sports memorabilia and sports licensed products and our ability to identify, form and maintain relationships with popular athletes. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences for these products or fail to identify, form and maintain relationships with these athletes, we may experience lower revenues, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty. These preferences are also subject to change. Sports memorabilia, licensed products and the popularity of athletes are often subject to short-lived trends, such as the short-lived popularity of certain athletes or sports teams. If we misjudge the popularity or staying power of a sports team or an athlete, we may over-stock unpopular products and force inventory markdowns that could have a negative impact on profitability, or have insufficient inventory of a popular item that can be sold at full markup. We are dependent upon the Field of Dreams® trademark. Field of Dreams® is a copyright and trademark owned by Universal City Studios, Inc. with all rights reserved. We license certain rights to use the name “Field of Dreams®” from an affiliate of Universal City Studios in connection with retail operations and catalog sales pursuant to an agreement that expires in December 2010. We believe that the rights in the licensed name are a significant part of our business and that our ability to create demand for our products is dependent to a large extent on our ability to exploit this trademark. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew the license agreement on favorable terms, if at all. Any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 10 Table of Contents Our retail business segment is highly seasonal. Historically, the (October through December) holiday quarter has accounted for a greater proportion of our operating income than have each of the other three quarters of our year. In the nine month transition period ended December 31, 2007, more than 75% of the revenues from our retail business segment and a substantial portion of our operating earnings and cash flows from operations were generated in the holiday quarter. Our results of operations depend significantly upon the holiday selling season. If less than satisfactory revenues, operating earnings or cash flows from operations are achieved during the key holiday quarter, we may not be able to compensate sufficiently for the lower revenues, operating earnings, or cash flows from operations during the other three quarters of the year. Our manufacturing/distribution segment and our franchise segment are not as significantly impacted by seasonality. The loss of key management personnel would adversely impact our business. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts of our key management personnel, including our chief executive officer and chairman, the loss of the services of any of them would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not have employment agreements in effect with, or key-man life insurance in the event of the death of, our president and chief executive officer or any of our other key employees, except we have an employment agreement with one of our divisional presidents and key-man life insurance for two of our divisional presidents. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility, which is due, in part, to the lack of liquidity of our shares. This lack of liquidity may continue for the foreseeable future. Our common stock currently trades on the American Stock Exchange. The development of a public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is not within the control of Dreams nor assured by listing our common stock on the American Stock Exchange. The absence of a liquid and active trading market, or the discontinuance thereof, may have an adverse effect on both the price and liquidity of our common stock. Additionally, disclosures of our operating results, announcements of regulatory changes affecting our franchise segment, other factors affecting our operations and general conditions in the securities markets unrelated to our operating performance may cause the market price of our common stock to change significantly over short periods of time. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Risks related to the E-commerce Industry Government regulation of the Internet and E-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business. A significant portion of our revenues are generated from our e-commerce business. Our e-commerce business is subject to regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business. We buy a significant portion of our inventory from a few vendors. Although we continue to increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, we source a significant amount of inventory from relatively few vendors. However, no vendor accounts for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. We could be liable for breaches of security on our website. A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 