Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in rapidly changing industries which makes our operating results difficult to predict. The industries in which we operate are rapidly changing and evolving making our risks, capital needs and operating results difficult to predict. Any failure to adapt our business in response to market changes could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to manage growth and diversification of our business could harm us. We are continuing our efforts to grow in the United States. This has placed, and will continue to place, demands on our personnel, as well as on our operational and financial infrastructure. To effectively manage our growth initiatives, we will need to continue to expand, improve and adapt our personnel, operations, infrastructure and our financial and information management systems and continue to implement adequate controls. These enhancements and improvements are likely to be complex and could require significant operating expenses, capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. We may also have to expand our management team by recruiting and employing additional experienced executives and employees. If we are unable to adapt our business, put adequate controls in place and expand our management team in a timely manner to accommodate our growth, our business may be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our business is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We face competition from technology and service providers which supply one or more components of an e-commerce solution and other providers of integrated e-commerce solutions. Our Web Syndication services has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and/or greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances or raise additional capital and established companies in other market segments or geographic markets expand into our market segments or geographic markets. If we cannot compete successfully against our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our business is highly seasonal; a weak fourth quarter could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the year. Our fourth fiscal quarter has accounted for and is expected to continue to account for a disproportionate amount of our total annual revenues because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season. For fiscal years 2011 and 2010, 53% of our annual net revenues were generated in our fourth fiscal quarter. Because our fourth quarter accounts for a larger percentage of our annual revenue, any negative impact on our business during the fourth quarter will have a disproportionate adverse affect on our results of operations for the full year. General economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. General economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The direction and relative strength of the global economy as well as the local economies in which we compete continue to be uncertain and any weakness in consumer spending may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Recent softness in the real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in fuel and other energy costs, deteriorating economic conditions in different countries, difficulties in the financial services sector and credit markets, high levels of unemployment and other macro-economic factors have created consumer uncertainty about current economic conditions which could adversely affect consumer confidence and behavior in ways that adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business. We currently have and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, borrowings under our Existing Credit Facility and capital Leases were about $12,000. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, our indebtedness could become immediately due and payable and could adversely affect our financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: • our debt level increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; and • our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our growth and success depend, in part, on our ability to add new clients, our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with existing clients, and the financial condition of our clients. Key elements of our growth strategy include adding new clients and extending the term of existing client agreements. Competition for clients is intense, and we may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to add new clients within the time frames projected by us, we may not be able to achieve our targeted results in the expected periods. A change in the management of our clients could adversely affect our relationship with those clients, including our ability to renew agreements with those clients or enter into amendments to those agreements on favorable terms. Many of our client contracts contain service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these commitments, our relationships with our clients could be damaged, client rights to terminate their contracts with us may be triggered, and financial penalty provisions of the contracts may be triggered. If any of our existing clients were to exit the business we provide services to, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, fail to pay amounts owed to us, and/or terminate or modify their relationships with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our agreements with existing clients expire or are terminated, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. We are subject to significant inventory risks. We are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results. These inventory risks are a result of seasonality, changes in consumer tastes, changes in consumer demand and spending habits, and other factors. In order to be successful in our owned inventory we must accurately predict consumer demand and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. If we fail to identify and respond to changes in merchandising and consumer preferences, sales on our owned inventory could suffer and we could be required to mark down unsold inventory, which would depress our profit margins. In addition, any failure to keep pace with changes in consumers’ tastes could result in lost opportunities and reduced sales through our owned inventory. If we are unable to liquidate our inventory through our primary channels, then we may need to liquidate merchandise below cost through third party channels. Inventory loss and theft, or “shrinkage,” and merchandise returns could also increase in the future. If merchandise returns are significant, or our shrinkage rate increases, our revenues and costs of operations could be adversely affected. Our licensed sports business depends on continued customer interest in professional sports leagues and could be adversely affected by any decrease in fan interest in the professional sports leagues, their teams or their players. Our business derives substantial revenues from the sale of sports products branded with the names and logos of professional sports leagues, their teams and/or their players. Any decrease in fan interest in professional sports leagues, their teams or their players, including as a result of labor conflicts (and resulting lock-outs, strikes, or cancelled games or seasons), player trades, player injuries, the lack of success of popular players or teams, or logo changes, could adversely affect our revenues and financial results. A disruption at any of our facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption at any of our facilities, including system, network, telecommunications, software or hardware failures, any damage to our physical locations or off-site data centers, or our ability to access our locations for any reason, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to the risk of damage or interruption from: • fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other natural disasters; • power losses and interruptions; • Internet, telecommunications or data network failures; • physical and electronic break-ins or security breaches; • computer viruses; • acts of terrorism; • outbreak of disease; and • other similar events. If any of these events occur, it could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in our businesses. Our clients might seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address and damaging to our reputation. We are dependent upon consumers’ willingness to use the Internet for commerce. Our success depends upon the general public’s continued willingness to use the Internet as a means to purchase goods, communicate, and conduct and research commercial transactions. If consumers became unwilling or less willing to use the Internet for communications or commerce for any reason, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the Internet, Internet outages or delays, disruptions or other damage to users’ computers, increases in the cost of accessing the Internet and security and privacy risks or the perception of such risks our businesses would suffer, such decreased use of the internet for communications and commerce would have an adverse impact on our businesses. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our software, trademarks, business processes and other proprietary information and material, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Any significant failure on our part to protect our intellectual property could make it easier for our competitors to offer similar services and thereby adversely affect our market opportunities. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. We have been, and may in the future be subject to intellectual property claims or competition or trade Practices claims that could be costly and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert that our businesses or technologies infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, or that we are engaging in unfair competition or other illegal trade practices. During our normal course of business, we have been notified of potential patent disputes in the past, although nothing material. Patent infringement and other intellectual property claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect or should have collected sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise, our business could be harmed. The application of sales tax or other similar taxes to interstate and international sales over the Internet is complex and evolving. We currently collect sales or other similar taxes only for goods we own, sell and ship into certain states. One or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions may seek to impose past and future sales tax obligations on us or other out-of-state companies that engage in e-commerce. If one or more states or any foreign country successfully asserts that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise for which we are not currently collecting taxes, it could result in substantial tax liability for past sales, decrease future sales and otherwise harm our business. 10 Table of Contents our agreements with our clients. If we are not able to or do not maintain the required insurance coverage, we could breach those agreements. Our success is dependent upon our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contribution of our executive officers and other key Personnel, including our President & CEO, Ross Tannenbaum. Our executive officers and key personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time despite any employment agreements we may have with these employees. Due to the competition for highly qualified personnel, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain or attract executive, managerial or other key personnel. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business if we are unable to effectively replace that person, if we incur significant operating expenses and direct management time to search for a replacement, or if that person should join one of our competitors or otherwise compete with us. We may be unable to hire and retain skilled personnel which could limit our growth. Our success depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel. Due to intense competition for these individuals from our competitors and other employers, we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to attract and retain the experienced and highly trained personnel that are integral to our businesses may limit our growth. Additionally, we have experienced recent growth in personnel numbers and expect to continue to hire additional personnel in selected areas. Managing this growth requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior management. If we are unable to effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of employees or to anticipate our future growth and personnel needs, we may not be able to retain skilled personnel and our business may be adversely affected. The price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price have been and may be as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: our performance and prospects; fluctuations in our operating results; changes in our publicly available guidance of future results of operations; investor perception of us and the industries in which we operate; and general financial, economic and other market conditions. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Declines in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be declared or paid in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Existing Credit Facility with PNC Bank restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 