ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is subject to the many risks and uncertainties applicable to all banking companies, as well as risks specific to the Corporation’s geographic locations. Although the Corporation seeks to effectively manage risks, and maintains a level of equity that exceeds the banking regulatory agencies’ thresholds for being considered “well capitalized” (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements), management cannot predict the future and cannot eliminate the possibility of credit, operational or other losses. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. Some of the Corporation’s significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below. Credit Risk from Lending Activities - A significant source of risk is the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most of the Corporation’s loans are secured, but some loans are unsecured. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when it is not. The Corporation has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including regular reviews of appraisals and borrower financial statements, that management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss. Also, as discussed further in the “Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Corporation attempts to estimate the amount of losses that may be inherent in the portfolio through a quarterly evaluation process that includes several members of management and that addresses specifically identified problem loans, as well as other quantitative data and qualitative factors. Such risk management and accounting policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 3 Interest Rate Risk - Business risk arising from changes in interest rates is an inherent factor in operating a banking organization. The Corporation’s assets are predominantly long-term, fixed rate loans and debt securities. Funding for these assets comes principally from shorter-term deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, there is an inherent risk of lower future earnings or decline in fair value of the Corporation’s financial instruments when interest rates change. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Mortgage Banking – In September 2009, the Corporation entered into an agreement to originate and sell residential mortgage loans to the secondary market through the MPF Xtra program administered by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Pittsburgh and Chicago. The Corporation’s mortgage sales activity under this program was not significant in 2009, but increased in 2010. At December 31, 2010, total residential mortgages serviced amounted to $25,716,000. The Corporation must strictly adhere to the MPF Xtra program guidelines for origination, underwriting and servicing loans, and failure to do so could result in the Corporation being forced to repurchase loans or being dropped from the program. If such a forced repurchase of loans were to occur, or if the Corporation were to be dropped from the program, it could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Equity Securities Risk - The Corporation’s equity securities portfolio consists of investments in stocks of banks and bank holding companies. Investments in bank stocks are subject to the risk factors affecting the banking industry, and that could cause a general market decline in the value of bank stocks. Also, losses could occur in individual stocks held by the Corporation because of specific circumstances related to each bank. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding equity securities risk, including management’s assessment of equity securities for other-than-temporary impairment as of December 31, 2010, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Debt Securities Risk – As described in the Earnings Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Corporation’s earnings were materially impaired in 2009 and 2008 by securities losses. Much of the Corporation’s 2009 and 2008 losses from trust-preferred securities and other securities stem from the much-publicized economic problems affecting the national and international economy, which have particularly hurt the banking industry. The Corporation has exposure to the possibility of future losses from investments in a senior tranche pooled trust-preferred security, trust-preferred securities issued by individual banks, obligations of states and political subdivisions (also known as municipal bonds) and other debt securities. For additional information regarding debt securities, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Realization of Deferred Tax Asset – The Corporation recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the net deferred tax asset was $16.1 million, down from a balance of approximately $22.0 million at December 31, 2009. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset was primarily attributed to a reduction in the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2010 related to other-than-temporary impairment losses on securities to $5.8 million at December 31, 2010 from $16.1 million at December 31, 2009. In addition, the deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2010 includes $2.8 million of net operating loss carryforwards available after the carryback of both ordinary and capital losses. The Corporation currently expects to fully realize all available tax benefits from the carryforward losses, and therefore has eliminated the valuation allowance of $373,000 previously established at December 31, 2009. The Corporation regularly reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability based on history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. Based on current conditions, management believes the recorded net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2010 is fully realizable, including amounts classified as capital losses from securities. However, if management determines the Corporation will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, the Corporation would adjust the deferred tax asset, which would negatively impact earnings. 4 Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh Common Stock - We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or the FHLB, in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock, which is included in Other Assets in the consolidated balance sheet, was $8.2 million as of December 31, 2010. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In December 2008, the FHLB had notified its member banks that it had suspended dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock until further notice is provided. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the FHLB were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off our investment in the FHLB, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. FDIC Insurance Assessments - In 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased the resolution costs of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have taken action to increase federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by seven cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes beginning April 1, 2009, which require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. To further support the rebuilding of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on each insured institution, equal to five basis points of the institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of September 30, 2009. For our banks, an aggregate charge of $589,000 was recorded as a charge to operating costs in 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. In December 2009, we paid a pre-payment of the FDIC’s estimated assessment total for the next three years, totaling approximately $5.5 million. The pre-payment amount has been included in Other Assets in the consolidated balance sheet, with approximately one-third amortized in 2010 and the remaining two-thirds to be amortized, subject to adjustments imposed by the FDIC, over the next two years. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If additional bank or financial institution failures occur, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. Our expenses, especially for 2009, have been significantly and adversely affected by the increased premiums and the special assessment. These increases and assessment and any future increases in insurance premiums or additional special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Breach of Information Security and Technology Dependence - The Corporation relies on software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite numerous safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Limited Geographic Diversification - The Corporation grants commercial, residential and personal loans to customers primarily in the Pennsylvania Counties of Tioga, Bradford, Sullivan, Lycoming, Potter, Cameron and McKean, and in Steuben and Allegany Counties in New York State. Although the Corporation has a diversified loan portfolio, a significant portion of its debtors’ ability to honor their contracts is dependent on the local economic conditions within the region. Deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect the quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Growth Strategy – In recent years, the Corporation has expanded its operations by acquisitions and by building and opening new branches. The Corporation’s future financial performance will depend on its ability to execute its strategic plan and manage its future growth. Failure to execute these plans could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 5 Competition - All phases of the Corporation’s business are competitive. Some competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization than the Corporation, have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively in its markets. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Government Regulation and Monetary Policy - The Corporation and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit the Corporation's shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the control of the Corporation. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects short-term interest rates and credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Bank Secrecy Act and Related Laws and Regulations - These laws and regulations have significant implications for all financial institutions. They increase due diligence requirements and reporting obligations for financial institutions, create new crimes and penalties, and require the federal banking agencies, in reviewing merger and other acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties to such transactions in combating money laundering activities. Even innocent noncompliance and inconsequential failure to follow the regulations could result in significant fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) - On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Act into law. The Act contains numerous and wide-ranging changes to the structure of the U.S. financial system. Portions of the Act are effective at different times, and many of the provisions require follow-on, more detailed rulemaking by regulators. Consequently, the Act’s impact on the financial system in general and the Corporation in particular cannot be predicted at this time. Some of the Act’s provisions management believes may impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations over the next few years are as follows: · requires the establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies that are not less than those currently applicable to insured depository institutions (currently 5%, 6% and 10% to be “well capitalized”, and 4%, 4% and 8% to be “adequately capitalized”); · alters the FDIC’s base for determining deposit insurance assessments by requiring the assessments be determined based on “average consolidated total assets” less the institution’s “average tangible equity,” rather than on a bank’s deposits; · increases the FDIC’s minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated deposits with no upward limit. The FDIC is required to “offset the effect” of the increased minimum reserve ratio on institutions with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. The intent appears to be to require the FDIC to impose higher premiums on larger banks in order to get from the old minimum of 1.15% to the new 1.35%, but given that the current reserve ratio is negative, all institutions can expect assessments to remain significant for the foreseeable future. The Act allows the FDIC until September 30, 2020 to reach 1.35%; · eliminates the prohibition against paying interest on commercial checking accounts, effective one year after enactment; and · requires the Federal Reserve, within nine months of enactment, to prescribe regulations to establish standards for determining that interchange transaction fees meet the new statutory standard of reasonable and proportional to the cost, which may lead to reductions in the Corporation’s non-interest revenue from interchange fees. 6 The Act has other significant features, some of which are as follows: (i) makes permanent the 2008 increase in the maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000, and extends until December 31, 2012 full deposit insurance coverage for qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, (ii) within the Act is the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, a broad piece of legislation intended to curtail abusive residential mortgage lending practices that contributed to the mortgage/housing crisis, (iii) requires the formation of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as a new, independent bureau within the Federal Reserve, with very broad rulemaking and supervisory authority with respect to federal consumer financial laws, (iv) establishes the Financial Stability Oversight Council, to serve as an early warning system identifying risks in firms and market activities, to enhance oversight of the financial system as a whole and to harmonize prudential standards across financial regulatory agencies, and (v) establishes several requirements related to executive compensation and corporate governance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 