ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is subject to the many risks and uncertainties applicable to all banking companies, as well as risks specific to the Corporation’s geographic locations. Although the Corporation seeks to effectively manage risks, and maintains a level of equity that exceeds the banking regulatory agencies’ thresholds for being considered “well capitalized” (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements), management cannot predict the future and cannot eliminate the possibility of credit, operational or other losses. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from management’s expectations. Some of the Corporation’s significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below. Credit Risk from Lending Activities — A significant source of risk is the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most of the Corporation’s loans are secured, but some loans are unsecured. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when it is not. The Corporation has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including regular reviews of appraisals and borrower financial statements, that management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss. Also, as discussed further in the “Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Corporation attempts to estimate the amount of losses that may be inherent in the portfolio through a quarterly evaluation process that includes several members of management and that addresses specifically identified problem loans, as well as other quantitative data and qualitative factors. Such risk management and accounting policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Interest Rate Risk — Business risk arising from changes in interest rates is an inherent factor in operating a banking organization. The Corporation’s assets are predominantly long-term, fixed rate loans and debt securities. Funding for these assets comes principally from shorter-term deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, there is an inherent risk of lower future earnings or decline in fair value of the Corporation’s financial instruments when interest rates change. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Equity Securities Risk — The Corporation’s equity securities portfolio consists primarily of investments in stocks of banks and bank holding companies. Investments in bank stocks are subject to the risk factors affecting the banking industry, and that could cause a general market decline in the value of bank stocks. Also, losses could occur in individual stocks held by the Corporation because of specific circumstances related to each bank. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. At December 31, 2008, the fair values of many of the Corporation’s equity securities were less than cost. For additional information regarding equity securities risk, including management’s assessment of equity securities for other-than-impairment as of December 31, 2008, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Debt Securities Risk – Pooled Trust-preferred Securities — Pooled trust-preferred securities are long-term instruments, mainly issued by banks, with 30 or more companies included in each pool. In 2008, trading volume of pooled trust-preferred securities became virtually nonexistent. Many of the Corporation’s pooled trust-preferred securities were downgraded by Moody’s during 2008, with securities with a total fair value of $35,995,000 at December 31, 2008 falling to ratings of less than investment grade. 4 Table of Contents Further, Moody’s and Fitch have placed many of the pooled trust-preferred securities on “Ratings Watch Negative,” meaning that an initial or further downgrade may be possible in the foreseeable future. In 2008, some of the issuers of trust-preferred securities that are included in the Corporation’s pooled investments have elected to defer payment of interest on these obligations (trust-preferred securities typically permit deferral of quarterly interest payments for up to five years), and some issuers have defaulted. The Corporation recorded other-than-temporary write-downs of the cost basis of pooled trust-preferred securities totaling $8,210,000 (pretax) to their estimated fair values as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation’s cost basis in pooled trust-preferred securities totaled $82.8 million, and the estimated fair value was $58.9 million. If the level of payment defaults by the underlying issuers of the pooled trust-preferred securities exceeds the amounts estimated by management in evaluating them for other-than-temporary impairment and calculating fair values at December 31, 2008, the Corporation would record additional other-than-temporary-impairment losses, and the amount of such losses could be significant. For additional information regarding debt securities risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Breach of Information Security and Technology Dependence — The Corporation relies on software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite numerous safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Limited Geographic Diversification — The Corporation grants commercial, residential and personal loans to customers primarily in the Pennsylvania Counties of Tioga, Bradford, Sullivan, Lycoming, Potter, Cameron and McKean, and in Steuben and Allegany Counties in New York State. Although the Corporation has a diversified loan portfolio, a significant portion of its debtors’ ability to honor their contracts is dependent on the local economic conditions within the region. Deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Growth Strategy — In recent years, the Corporation has expanded its operations by acquisitions and by building and opening new branches. The Corporation’s future financial performance will depend on its ability to execute its strategic plan and manage its future growth. Failure to execute these plans could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Competition — All phases of the Corporation’s business are competitive. Some competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization than the Corporation, have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively in its markets. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Government Regulation and Monetary Policy — The Corporation and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit the Corporation’s shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the control of the Corporation. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects short-term interest rates and credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program — Although the Corporation is well-capitalized (as described in more detail in the “Stockholders’ Equity and Capital Adequacy” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis), current economic conditions are volatile. Accordingly, management and the Corporation’s Board of Directors decided to raise more capital by participating in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. On January 16, 2009, the Corporation issued 26,440 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (“Preferred Stock”) and a Warrant to purchase up to 194,794 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $20.36 per share. The Corporation sold the Preferred Stock and Warrant to the United States Department of the Treasury for an aggregate price of $26,440,000. Pursuant to participation in the TARP Program, the Corporation may continue to pay dividends on its common stock, subject to the following requirements and limitations: (1) all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods on the preferred stock issued to the Treasury must be fully paid; and (2) consent of the Treasury is required for 5 Table of Contents any increase in the per share dividends on common shares until January 16, 2012, unless prior to that date, the Corporation has redeemed the preferred stock issued to the Treasury in whole or the Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to third parties. Also, until January 16, 2012 (unless prior to that date, the Corporation has redeemed the preferred stock issued to the Treasury in whole or the Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to third parties) the Treasury’s consent is required for any repurchases of common stock, except for repurchases of shares in connection with employee benefit plans in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice. Bank Secrecy Act and Related Laws and Regulations — These laws and regulations have significant implications for all financial institutions. They increase due diligence requirements and reporting obligations for financial institutions, create new crimes and penalties, and require the federal banking agencies, in reviewing merger and other acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties to such transactions in combating money laundering activities. Even innocent noncompliance and inconsequential failure to follow the regulations could result in significant fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 