ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is subject to the many risks and uncertainties applicable to all banking companies, as well as risks specific to the Corporation’s geographic locations. Although the Corporation seeks to effectively manage risks, and maintains a level of equity that exceeds the banking regulatory agencies’ thresholds for being considered “well capitalized” (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements), management cannot predict the future and cannot eliminate the possibility of credit, operational or other losses. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. Some of the Corporation’s significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below. 3 Credit Risk from Lending Activities - A significant source of risk is the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most of the Corporation’s loans are secured, but some loans are unsecured. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when it is not. The Corporation has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including regular reviews of appraisals and borrower financial statements, that management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss. Also, as discussed further in the “Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Corporation attempts to estimate the amount of losses that may be inherent in the portfolio through a quarterly evaluation process that includes several members of management and that addresses specifically identified problem loans, as well as other quantitative data and qualitative factors. Such risk management and accounting policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Interest Rate Risk - Business risk arising from changes in interest rates is an inherent factor in operating a banking organization. The Corporation’s assets are predominantly long-term, fixed-rate loans and debt securities. Funding for these assets comes principally from shorter-term deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, there is an inherent risk of lower future earnings or decline in fair value of the Corporation’s financial instruments when interest rates change. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Mortgage Banking – In September 2009, the Corporation entered into an agreement to originate and sell residential mortgage loans to the secondary market through the MPF Xtra program administered by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Pittsburgh and Chicago. The Corporation’s mortgage sales activity under this program was not significant in 2009, but increased in 2010, 2011 and 2012. At December 31, 2012, total residential mortgages serviced amounted to $100,631,000. The Corporation must strictly adhere to the MPF Xtra program guidelines for origination, underwriting and servicing loans, and failure to do so could result in the Corporation being forced to repurchase loans or being dropped from the program. If such a forced repurchase of loans were to occur, or if the Corporation were to be dropped from the program, it could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Equity Securities Risk - The Corporation’s equity securities portfolio consists of investments in stocks of banks and bank holding companies. Investments in bank stocks are subject to the risk factors affecting the banking industry, and that could cause a general market decline in the value of bank stocks. Also, losses could occur in individual stocks held by the Corporation because of specific circumstances related to each bank. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding equity securities risk, including management’s assessment of equity securities for other-than-temporary impairment as of December 31, 2012, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Debt Securities Risk – In 2009, the Corporation’s earnings were materially impaired by securities losses. Much of the Corporation’s 2009 losses from trust-preferred securities and other securities stem from the much-publicized economic problems affecting the national and international economy, which particularly hurt the banking industry. The Corporation has exposure to the possibility of future losses from investments in a senior tranche pooled trust-preferred security, a trust-preferred security issued by an individual bank, obligations of states and political subdivisions (also known as municipal bonds) and other debt securities. For additional information regarding debt securities, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh - Through its subsidiary (C&N Bank), the Corporation is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLB-Pittsburgh), which is one of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Corporation has a line of credit with the FHLB-Pittsburgh that is secured by a blanket lien on its loan portfolio. Access to this line of credit is critical if a funding need arises. However, there can be no assurance that the FHLB-Pittsburgh will be able to provide funding when needed, nor can there be assurance that the FHLB-Pittsburgh will provide funds specifically to the Corporation should its financial condition deteriorate and/or regulators prevent that access. The inability to access this source of funds could have a materially adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial flexibility if alternate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. The failure of the FHLB-Pittsburgh or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Corporation’s ability to meet short- and long-term liquidity needs or to meet growth plans. 4 The Corporation owns common stock of the FHLB-Pittsburgh in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system and access services from the FHLB-Pittsburgh. The FHLB-Pittsburgh faces a variety of risks in its operations including interest rate risk, counterparty credit risk, and adverse changes in its regulatory framework. In addition, the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB cannot meet its obligations, other FHLBs can be called upon to make required payments. Such risks affecting the FHLB-Pittsburgh could adversely impact the value of the Corporation’s investment in the common stock of the FHLB-Pittsburgh and/or affect its access to credit. Soundness of Other Financial Institutions - In addition to the FHLB-Pittsburgh, the Corporation maintains other credit facilities that provide it with additional liquidity. These facilities include secured and unsecured borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation believes that it maintains a strong liquidity position and that it is well positioned to withstand foreseeable market conditions. However, legal agreements with counterparties typically include provisions allowing them to restrict or terminate the Corporation’s access to these credit facilities with or without advance notice and at their sole discretion. Financial institutions are interconnected as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. Financial market conditions have been negatively impacted in the past and such disruptions or adverse changes in the Corporation's results of operations or financial condition could, in the future, have a negative impact on available sources of liquidity. Such a situation may arise due to circumstances that are outside the Corporation’s control, such as general market disruptions or operational problems affecting the Corporation or third parties. The Corporation’s efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in available liquidity. In such events, the Corporation’s cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing net interest income, or the Corporation may need to sell a portion of its securities and/or loan portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could necessitate realizing a loss. FDIC Insurance Assessments - In 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased the resolution costs of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have taken action to increase federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, in 2009 the FDIC increased assessment rates and imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. In December 2009, we paid a pre-payment of the FDIC’s estimated assessment total for the next three years, totaling approximately $5.5 million. The pre-payment amount has been included in Other Assets in the consolidated balance sheet, with amounts amortized in 2010, 2011 and 2012 based on current assessments. At the end of 2012, approximately $2.8 million remains to be amortized, subject to adjustments imposed by the FDIC, over future years. Although our total expenses from FDIC assessments have decreased to $633,000 in 2012, $832,000 in 2011 and $1,450,000 in 2010 from $2,092,000 in 2009, we are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If additional bank or financial institution failures occur, we may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums. Future increases in FDIC insurance premiums or additional special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Breach of Information Security and Technology Dependence - The Corporation relies on software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite numerous safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Limited Geographic Diversification - The Corporation grants commercial, residential and personal loans to customers primarily in the Pennsylvania counties of Tioga, Bradford, Sullivan, Lycoming, Potter, Cameron and McKean, and in Steuben and Allegany Counties in New York State. Although the Corporation has a diversified loan portfolio, a significant portion of its debtors’ ability to honor their contracts is dependent on the local economic conditions within the region. As described in the “Business” section of Form 10-K, in recent years the Corporation’s market area has been significantly impacted by natural gas development activities associated with exploration of the Marcellus Shale. While Marcellus Shale-related development has created economic opportunities for business and individuals throughout much of our market area, natural gas exploration activity slowed over the course of 2012, and the possibility exists that this activity could be further reduced or cease as a result of changes in economic conditions, environmental concerns or other factors. 5 Deterioration in economic conditions, including possible effects if Marcellus Shale-related activity were to further diminish or cease, could adversely affect the quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Competition - All phases of the Corporation’s business are competitive. Some competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization than the Corporation, have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively in its markets. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Government Regulation and Monetary Policy - The Corporation and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit the Corporation's shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the control of the Corporation. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects short-term interest rates and credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Bank Secrecy Act and Related Laws and Regulations - These laws and regulations have significant implications for all financial institutions. They increase due diligence requirements and reporting obligations for financial institutions, create new crimes and penalties, and require the federal banking agencies, in reviewing merger and other acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties to such transactions in combating money laundering activities. Even innocent noncompliance and inconsequential failure to follow the regulations could result in significant fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”) - On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Act into law. The Act contains numerous and wide-ranging changes to the structure of the U.S. financial system. Portions of the Act are effective at different times, and though some provisions have been implemented, many of the provisions require follow-on, more detailed rulemaking by regulators. Consequently, the Act’s impact on the financial system in general and the Corporation in particular cannot be predicted at this time. Some of the Act’s provisions that management believes may impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations over the next few years are as follows: ·required the Federal Reserve to prescribe regulations to establish standards for determining that interchange transaction fees meet the new statutory standard of reasonable and proportional to the cost. These regulations were enacted, effective October 1, 2011, establishing maximum rates that may be paid to large (as defined) financial institutions. The maximum rates established under the rule are approximately 45% lower than the rates paid to the Corporation throughout most of the last several years. Although the rules do not apply directly to the Corporation (because the Corporation is not considered a large financial institution for this purpose), management believes interchange revenues could be reduced in the future, either because of lower volumes or because market conditions will dictate that smaller financial institutions receive rates similar to larger financial institutions. ·eliminated the prohibition against paying interest on commercial checking accounts; ·effective for the second quarter 2011 assessment, altered the FDIC’s base for determining deposit insurance assessments by requiring the assessments be determined based on “average consolidated total assets” less the institution’s “average tangible equity,” rather than on a bank’s deposits; ·increases the FDIC’s minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of estimated deposits with no upward limit. The FDIC is required to “offset the effect” of the increased minimum reserve ratio on institutions with less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. The intent appears to be to require the FDIC to impose higher premiums on larger banks in order to get from the old minimum of 1.15% to the new 1.35%, but all institutions can expect assessments to remain significant for the foreseeable future. The Act allows the FDIC until September 30, 2020 to reach 1.35%; and 6 ·requires the establishment of minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies that are not less than those currently applicable to insured depository institutions (currently 5%, 6% and 10% to be “well capitalized”, and 4%, 4% and 8% to be “adequately capitalized”). The Act has other significant features, some of which are as follows: (i) makes permanent the 2008 increase in the maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000, and extended until December 31, 2012 full deposit insurance coverage for qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, (ii) within the Act is the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, a broad piece of legislation intended to curtail abusive residential mortgage lending practices that contributed to the mortgage/housing crisis, (iii) required the formation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as a new, independent bureau within the Federal Reserve, with very broad rulemaking and supervisory authority with respect to federal consumer financial laws, (iv) establishes the Financial Stability Oversight Council, to serve as an early warning system identifying risks in firms and market activities, to enhance oversight of the financial system as a whole and to harmonize prudential standards across financial regulatory agencies, and (v) establishes several requirements related to executive compensation and corporate governance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 