Risk Factors and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Contingencies and Commitments. Air: Consumers continues to install state-of-the-art emissions control equipment at its electric generating plants and to convert electric generating units to burn cleaner fuels. Consumers estimates that it will incur expenditures of $1.4 billion from 2011 through 2018 to comply with present and future federal and state regulations that will require extensive reductions in nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxides, particulate matter, and mercury emissions. Consumers’ estimate may increase if additional laws or regulations are adopted or implemented regarding greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide. For additional information concerning estimated capital expenditures related to emissions control, see Item 7. MD&A, Outlook, “Consumers’ Electric Utility Business Outlook and Uncertainties — Electric Environmental Estimates.” Solid Waste Disposal: Costs related to the construction, operation, and closure of solid waste disposal facilities for coal ash are significant. Historically, Consumers has worked with others to reuse 30 to 40 percent of ash produced by its coal-fueled plants, and sells ash for use as a Portland cement replacement in concrete products, as feedstock for the manufacture of Portland cement, and for other environmentally-compatible uses. Consumers’ solid waste disposal areas are regulated under Michigan’s solid waste rules. Consumers has converted all of its fly ash handling systems to dry systems, which reduce landfill venting substantially. All of Consumers’ ash facilities have programs designed to protect the environment and are subject to quarterly MDNRE inspections. Furthermore, an independent consultant has assessed dike integrity and stability. No major deficiencies were identified that could immediately jeopardize continued safe and reliable operation of the project structures. The draft reports of three EPA contractors who have since inspected these facilities with regard to National Dam Safety Program Act requirements comport with this conclusion. The EPA has proposed new federal regulations for ash disposal areas. Consumers estimates that it will incur expenditures of $320 million from 2011 through 2018 to comply with future regulations relating to ash disposal. For additional information concerning estimated capital expenditures related to solid waste disposal, see Item 7. MD&A, Outlook, “Consumers’ Electric Utility Business Outlook and Uncertainties — Electric Environmental Estimates.” Water: Consumers uses significant amounts of water to operate and cool its electric generating plants. Water discharge quality is regulated and administered by the MDNRE under the federal NPDES program. To comply with such regulation, Consumers’ facilities have discharge monitoring programs. The EPA is developing new regulations related to cooling water intake systems. Consumers estimates that it will incur expenditures of $180 million from 2011 through 2018 to comply with future regulations relating to cooling water intake systems. For additional information concerning estimated capital expenditures related to cooling water intake systems, see Item 7. MD&A, Outlook, “Consumers’ Electric Utility Business Outlook and Uncertainties — Electric Environmental Estimates.” CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS COMPETITION Electric Competition Consumers’ electric utility business is subject to actual and potential competition from many sources, in both the wholesale and retail markets, as well as in electric generation, electric delivery, and retail services. The Customer Choice Act allows all of Consumers’ electric customers to buy electric generation service from Consumers or from an alternative electric supplier. The 2008 Energy Legislation revised the Customer Choice Act by limiting alternative electric supply to ten percent of weather-adjusted retail sales for the preceding calendar year. At December 31, 2010, electric deliveries under the ROA program were at the ten percent limit. Alternative electric suppliers were providing 807 MW of generation service to ROA customers. Consumers also has competition or potential competition from: • industrial customers relocating all or a portion of their production capacity outside Consumers’ service territory for economic reasons; 26 Table of Contents • municipalities owning or operating competing electric delivery systems; • customer self-generation; and • adjacent utilities that extend lines to customers in contiguous service territories. Consumers addresses this competition by monitoring activity in adjacent areas and monitoring compliance with the MPSC’s and FERC’s rules, providing non-energy services, and providing tariff-based incentives that support economic development. CMS ERM continues to focus on optimizing CMS Energy’s IPP portfolio. CMS Energy’s IPP business faces competition from generators, marketers and brokers, and utilities marketing power in the wholesale market. Gas Competition Competition exists in various aspects of Consumers’ gas utility business. Competition comes from other gas suppliers taking advantage of direct access to Consumers’ customers and from alternative fuels and energy sources, such as propane, oil, and electricity. INSURANCE CMS Energy and its subsidiaries, including Consumers, maintain insurance coverage generally similar to comparable companies in the same lines of business. The insurance policies are subject to terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions that might not fully compensate CMS Energy or Consumers for all losses. A portion of each loss is generally assumed by CMS Energy or Consumers in the form of deductibles and self-insured retentions that, in some cases, are substantial. As CMS Energy or Consumers renews its policies, it is possible that some of the present insurance coverage may not be renewed or obtainable on commercially reasonable terms due to restrictive insurance markets. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ present insurance program does not cover the risks of certain environmental cleanup costs and environmental damages, such as claims for air pollution, damage to sites owned by CMS Energy or Consumers, and some long-term storage or disposal of wastes. EMPLOYEES CMS Energy At December 31, 2010, CMS Energy and its wholly owned subsidiaries, including Consumers, had 7,822 full-time equivalent employees. Included in the total are 3,310 full-time operating, maintenance, and construction employees and full-time and part-time call center employees who are represented by the Union. Consumers At December 31, 2010, Consumers and its subsidiaries had 7,522 full-time equivalent employees. Included in the total are 3,310 full-time operating, maintenance, and construction employees and full-time and part-time call center employees who are represented by the Union. 27 Table of Contents CMS ENERGY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS (as of February 1, 2011) Name Age Position Period John G. Russell 53 President and CEO of CMS Energy 5/2010-Present President and CEO of Consumers 5/2010-Present Director of CMS Energy 5/2010-Present Director of Consumers 5/2010-Present Director of CMS Enterprises 5/2010-Present Chairman of the Board, President and CEO of CMS Enterprises 5/2010-Present President and Chief Operating Officer of Consumers 2004-5/2010 Thomas J. Webb 58 Executive Vice President, CFO of CMS Energy 2002-Present Executive Vice President, CFO of Consumers 2002-Present Executive Vice President, CFO of CMS Enterprises 2002-Present Director of CMS Enterprises 2002-Present James E. Brunner 58 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Energy 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Consumers 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Enterprises 11/2007-Present Director of CMS Enterprises 2006-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Enterprises 2006-11/2007 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of CMS Energy 5/2006-11/2006 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Consumers 5/2006-11/2006 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Energy 2/2006-5/2006 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Interim Chief Compliance Officer of Consumers 2/2006-5/2006 Vice President and General Counsel of Consumers 7/2004-2/2006 John M. Butler* 46 Senior Vice President of CMS Energy 2006-Present Senior Vice President of Consumers 2006-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Enterprises 2006-Present 28 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period David G. Mengebier 53 Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of CMS Energy 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of Consumers 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Enterprises 2003-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Energy 2001-11/2006 Senior Vice President of Consumers 2001-11/2006 Glenn P. Barba 45 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Energy 2003-Present Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Consumers 2003-Present Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of CMS Enterprises 11/2007-Present Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Enterprises 2003-11/2007 * From 2004 until June 2006, Mr. Butler was Human Resources Director, Manufacturing and Engineering at Dow Chemical Company, a non-affiliated company. There are no family relationships among executive officers and directors of CMS Energy. The term of office of each of the executive officers extends to the first meeting of the Board of Directors of CMS Energy after the next annual election of Directors of CMS Energy (scheduled to be held on May 20, 2011). CONSUMERS EXECUTIVE OFFICERS (as of February 1, 2011) Name Age Position Period John G. Russell 53 President and CEO of CMS Energy 5/2010-Present President and CEO of Consumers 5/2010-Present Director of CMS Energy 5/2010-Present Director of Consumers 5/2010-Present Director of CMS Enterprises 5/2010-Present Chairman of the Board, President and CEO of CMS Enterprises 5/2010-Present President and Chief Operating Officer of Consumers 2004-5/2010 Thomas J. Webb 58 Executive Vice President, CFO of CMS Energy 2002-Present Executive Vice President, CFO of Consumers 2002-Present Executive Vice President, CFO of CMS Enterprises 2002-Present Director of CMS Enterprises 2002-Present James E. Brunner 58 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Energy 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Consumers 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Enterprises 11/2007-Present Director of CMS Enterprises 2006-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Enterprises 2006-11/2007 29 Table of Contents Name Age Position Period Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of CMS Energy 5/2006-11/2006 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of Consumers 5/2006-11/2006 Senior Vice President and General Counsel of CMS Energy 2/2006-5/2006 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Interim Chief Compliance Officer of Consumers 2/2006-5/2006 Vice President and General Counsel of Consumers 7/2004-2/2006 John M. Butler* 46 Senior Vice President of CMS Energy 2006-Present Senior Vice President of Consumers 2006-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Enterprises 2006-Present David G. Mengebier 53 Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of CMS Energy 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of Consumers 11/2006-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Enterprises 2003-Present Senior Vice President of CMS Energy 2001-11/2006 Senior Vice President of Consumers 2001-11/2006 William E. Garrity 62 Senior Vice President of Consumers 2005-Present Jackson L. Hanson 54 Senior Vice President of Consumers 5/2010-Present Vice President of Consumers 11/2006-5/2010 Plant and Site Business Manager of Consumers 4/2006-11/2006 Daniel J. Malone 50 Senior Vice President of Consumers 5/2010-Present Vice President of Consumers 6/2008-5/2010 Site Business Manager of Consumers 12/2006-6/2008 Manager of Equipment Services of Consumers 8/2006-12/2006 Glenn P. Barba 45 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Energy 2003-Present Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Consumers 2003-Present Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Enterprises 11/2007-Present Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of CMS Enterprises 2003-11/2007 * From 2004 until June 2006, Mr. Butler was Human Resources Director, Manufacturing and Engineering at Dow Chemical Company, a non-affiliated company. There are no family relationships among executive officers and directors of Consumers. The term of office of each of the executive officers extends to the first meeting of the Board of Directors of Consumers after the next annual election of Directors of Consumers (scheduled to be held on May 20, 2011). AVAILABLE INFORMATION CMS Energy’s internet address is www.cmsenergy.com. Information contained on CMS Energy’s website is not incorporated herein. All of CMS Energy’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act 30 Table of Contents are accessible free of charge on CMS Energy’s website. These reports are available soon after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Also on CMS Energy’s website are its: • Corporate Governance Principles; • Codes of Conduct (CMS Energy Corporation/Consumers Energy Company Board of Directors Code of Conduct — 2010 and Code of Conduct and Guide to Ethical Business Behavior 2010); • Board committee charters (including the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Governance and Public Responsibility Committee); and • Articles of Incorporation (and amendments) and Bylaws. CMS Energy will provide this information in print to any stockholder who requests it. Any materials CMS Energy files with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington D.C., 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address is www.sec.gov. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for CMS Energy and Consumers could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the following sections. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, that involve uncertainties that may materially affect results, and that are often beyond their control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. The risk factors described in the following sections, as well as the other information included in this report and in other documents filed with the SEC, should be considered carefully before making an investment in securities of CMS Energy or Consumers. Risk factors of Consumers are also risk factors of CMS Energy. All of these risk factors are potentially significant. CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service obligations. Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other payment obligations. Restrictions contained in Consumers’ preferred stock provisions and other legal restrictions, such as certain terms in its articles of incorporation and FERC requirements, limit Consumers’ ability to pay dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy. At December 31, 2010, Consumers had $404 million of unrestricted retained earnings available to pay common stock dividends. If sufficient dividends are not paid to CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy may not be able to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity and financial condition. CMS Energy has indebtedness that could limit its financial flexibility and hence its ability to meet its debt service obligations. At December 31, 2010, CMS Energy, including Consumers, had $7.2 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, including $29 million of subordinated indebtedness relating to its convertible preferred securities. CMS Energy had $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, there were no borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding under CMS Energy’s revolving credit agreement. CMS Energy and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The level of CMS Energy’s present and future indebtedness could have several important effects on its future operations, including, among others: • a significant portion of CMS Energy’s cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in CMS Energy’s existing debt arrangements, which require it to meet certain financial tests, could affect its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business; • CMS Energy’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate and other purposes could become limited; • CMS Energy could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less leveraged; • CMS Energy’s vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions could increase; and • CMS Energy’s future credit ratings could fluctuate. CMS Energy’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, changes in laws or regulatory decisions (including with respect to environmental matters), and financial, business, and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. CMS Energy cannot make assurances that its business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness. If CMS Energy is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it may be required to sell assets or obtain additional financing. CMS Energy cannot ensure that additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. 32 Table of Contents CMS Energy cannot predict the outcome of regulatory reviews and claims regarding its participation in the development of Bay Harbor. The EPA and the MDNRE have not completed their review of proposals by CMS Land and CMS Capital to remedy the flow of leachate from buried CKD piles at the Bay Harbor site to Lake Michigan and related environmental issues. One of the major issues to be resolved is determining a long-term solution to the disposal of leachate collected at the site. In December 2010, the MDNRE issued a five-year NPDES permit that authorizes CMS Land to discharge treated leachate into Little Traverse Bay. Costs to treat and discharge collected leachate under this permit could exceed those that are presently anticipated. Additionally, CMS Land and CMS Capital could be required to alter their present water disposal strategy upon expiration of this permit if the MDNRE or EPA identify a more suitable option, or if the permit itself is challenged before the MDNRE or the courts. CMS Land and CMS Capital, the MDNRE, the EPA, and other parties continue to negotiate the long-term remedy for the Bay Harbor site. These negotiations are focused on, among other things, issues related to: • the disposal of leachate; • the capping and excavation of CKD; • the location and design of collection lines and upstream water diversion systems; • application of criteria for various substances such as mercury; and • other matters that are likely to affect the scope of remedial work that CMS Land and CMS Capital may be obligated to undertake. Depending on the results of these negotiations, as well as the size of any indemnity obligation or liability under an Administrative Order on Consent signed by CMS Land and CMS Capital or other liability under environmental laws, adverse outcomes of some or all of these matters could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity and financial condition and could negatively affect CMS Energy’s financial results. CMS Energy could be affected adversely by a regulatory investigation and civil lawsuits regarding pricing information that CMS MST and CMS Field Services provided to market publications. In 2002, CMS Energy notified appropriate regulatory and governmental agencies that some employees at CMS MST and CMS Field Services appeared to have provided inaccurate information regarding natural gas trades to various energy industry publications which compile and report index prices. CMS Energy is cooperating with an ongoing investigation by the DOJ regarding this matter. CMS Energy is unable to predict the outcome of the DOJ investigation or the amount of any fines or penalties that may be imposed and what effect, if any, the investigation will have on CMS Energy. CMS Energy, CMS MST, CMS Field Services, Cantera Natural Gas, Inc., and Cantera Gas Company were named as defendants in various lawsuits arising as a result of alleged false natural gas price reporting. Allegations included manipulation of NYMEX natural gas futures and options prices, price-fixing conspiracies, and artificial inflation of natural gas retail prices in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Tennessee, and Wisconsin. CMS Energy cannot predict the outcome of the lawsuits or the amount of damages for which CMS Energy may be liable. It is possible that the outcome in one or more of the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers retain contingent liabilities in connection with their asset sales. The agreements that CMS Energy and Consumers enter into for the sale of assets customarily include provisions whereby they are required to: • retain specified preexisting liabilities, such as for taxes, pensions, or environmental conditions; • indemnify the buyers against specified risks, including the inaccuracy of representations and warranties they make; and 33 Table of Contents • make payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing adjustments, litigation, audits, or other reviews, including claims resulting from attempts by foreign or domestic governments to assess taxes on past operations or transactions. Many of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers may ultimately seek to enforce their rights under these contractual provisions, and the resolution of any disputes concerning them, there could be a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers have financing needs and could be unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets. Potential disruption in the capital and credit markets could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and their ability to meet long-term commitments. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers may be subject to liquidity demands under commercial commitments, guarantees, indemnities, and letters of credit. Consumers’ capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years as it implements generation and environmental projects, and those requirements may increase if additional laws or regulations are adopted or implemented regarding greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide. CMS Energy and Consumers rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as on bank syndications, to meet their financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ respective operations. CMS Energy and Consumers also use letters of credit issued under certain of their revolving credit facilities to support certain operations and investments. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ access to liquidity needed for their respective businesses. Any disruption could require CMS Energy and Consumers to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for their business needs can be arranged. These measures could include deferring capital expenditures, changing CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commodity purchasing strategy to avoid collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, dividend payments, or other discretionary uses of cash. CMS Energy continues to explore financing opportunities to supplement its financial plan. These potential opportunities include refinancing and/or issuing new capital markets debt, preferred stock and/or common equity, and bank financing. Similarly, Consumers plans to seek funds through the capital markets, commercial lenders, and leasing arrangements. Entering into new financings is subject in part to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ securities issuances in particular. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee the capital markets’ acceptance of their securities or predict the impact of factors beyond their control, such as actions of rating agencies. If CMS Energy or Consumers is unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, or is unable to obtain commercially reasonable terms for any financing, there could be a material adverse effect on its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Certain of CMS Energy’s securities and those of its affiliates, including Consumers, are rated by various credit rating agencies. Any reduction or withdrawal of one or more of its credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ ability to access capital on acceptable terms and maintain commodity lines of credit, could make its cost of borrowing higher, and could cause CMS Energy or Consumers to reduce its capital expenditures. If it is unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy or Consumers may have to post collateral or make prepayments to certain of its suppliers under existing contracts. Further, since Consumers provides dividends to CMS Energy, any adverse developments affecting Consumers that result in a lowering of its credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy’s credit ratings. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot 34 Table of Contents guarantee that any of their present ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. CMS Energy and Consumers could incur additional significant costs to comply with environmental requirements. CMS Energy, Consumers, and their subsidiaries are subject to costly and increasingly stringent environmental regulations. They believe that environmental laws and regulations related to flue gas emissions, ash disposal, and cooling water use will continue to become more stringent and require them to make additional significant capital expenditures for emissions control equipment installation and upgrades. In 2009, the EPA issued an endangerment finding for greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. In this finding, which has been challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit by numerous parties, the EPA determined that present and projected atmospheric concentrations of six greenhouse gases threaten the public health and welfare of present and future generations. In May 2010, the EPA issued a final rule that addresses greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act permitting programs. The “tailoring rule” sets thresholds for greenhouse gas emissions that define when permits under the NSR and Title V programs are required for new and existing industrial facilities. This regulation took effect in January 2011. Comprehensive federal legislation that addresses greenhouse gases has not advanced in the U.S. Congress. Federal legislation is considered likely to be enacted in some form in the future and could have a significant impact on the operation and cost of existing and future fossil-fueled power plants. In 2010, a significant percentage of the energy generated by Consumers came from fossil-fueled power plants. The emissions from fossil-fueled power plants would be subject to greenhouse gas regulations. CMS Enterprises also has interests in fossil-fueled power plants and other types of power plants that produce greenhouse gases. Federal laws and rules limiting the emission of greenhouse gases or similar state laws and rules, if enacted, as well as international accords and treaties, could require CMS Energy and Consumers to install additional equipment for emission controls, purchase carbon emissions allowances, curtail operations, invest in non-fossil-fuel generating capacity, or take other significant steps to manage or lower the emission of greenhouse gases. The following risks related to climate change could also have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations: • litigation originated by third parties against CMS Energy, Consumers, or their subsidiaries due to CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ greenhouse gas emissions; • impairment of CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ reputation due to its greenhouse gas emissions and public perception of its response to potential greenhouse gas regulations, rules, and legislation; and • extreme weather conditions, such as severe storms, that may affect customer demand, company operations, or assets. The EPA is considering regulating CCBs, such as coal ash, as hazardous wastes under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Michigan already regulates CCBs as low-hazard industrial waste. If coal ash is regulated as a hazardous waste, Consumers would likely cease the beneficial re-use of this product, resulting in significantly more coal ash requiring costly disposal. Additionally, it is possible that existing landfills could be closed if the upgrades to hazardous waste landfill standards are economically prohibitive. Costs associated with this potential regulation could be substantial. The EPA is revising regulations that govern cooling water intake structures aimed at protecting aquatic life. Costs associated with these revisions could be material to CMS Energy, Consumers, and CMS Enterprises and result in operational changes or the retirement of certain generating units. CMS Energy and Consumers expect to collect fully from their customers, through the ratemaking process, expenditures incurred to comply with environmental regulations. If Consumers were unable to recover these expenditures from customers in rates, it could negatively affect CMS Energy’s and/or Consumers’ liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition and CMS Energy and/or Consumers could be required to seek significant additional financing to fund these expenditures. 35 Table of Contents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses could be affected adversely by any delay in meeting environmental requirements. A delay or failure by CMS Energy or Consumers to obtain or maintain any necessary environmental permits or approvals to satisfy any applicable environmental regulatory requirements or install emission control equipment could: • prevent the construction of new facilities; • prevent the continued operation and sale of energy from existing facilities; • prevent the modification of existing facilities; or • result in significant additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. Market performance and other changes could decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ pension and postretirement benefit plans. CMS Energy and Consumers have significant obligations under these plans and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ forecasted return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets or a change in the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Also, changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and postretirement benefit plans. If CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to manage their pension and postretirement plan assets successfully, it could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Periodic reviews of the values of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ assets could result in accounting charges. CMS Energy and Consumers are required by GAAP to review periodically the carrying value of their assets, including those that may be sold. Market conditions, the operational characteristics of their assets, and other factors could result in recording impairment charges for their assets, which could have an adverse effect on their stockholders’ equity and their access to additional financing. In addition, CMS Energy and Consumers may be required to record impairment charges at the time they sell assets, depending on the sale prices they are able to secure and other factors. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses have safety risks. Consumers’ electric and gas delivery systems, power plants, gas infrastructure, and energy products could be involved in accidents that result in injury or property loss to customers, employees, or the public. Although CMS Energy and Consumers have insurance coverage for many potential incidents, depending upon the nature or severity of any incident or accident, CMS Energy or Consumers could suffer financial loss, damage to its reputation, and negative repercussions from regulatory agencies or other public authorities. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond their control, including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or related acts of war, hostile cyber intrusions, or other catastrophic events. The impact of natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts, cyber intrusions, and other catastrophic events on the facilities and operations of CMS Energy and Consumers could have a material adverse affect on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. A terrorist attack on physical infrastructure or a major natural disaster could result in severe damage to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ assets beyond what could be recovered through insurance policies. Hostile cyber intrusions, including those targeting information systems as well as electronic control systems used at the generating plants and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could severely disrupt 36 Table of Contents business operations and result in loss of service to customers, as well as significant expense to repair security breaches or system damage. Terrorist attacks or acts of war could result in the disruption of power and fuel markets that could increase costs or disrupt service. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, credit crises, recessions, or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to significant reputational risks. Consumers is actively engaged in multiple regulatory oversight processes and has a large electric and gas customer base. As a result, Consumers has a highly visible public profile in Michigan. Consumers and CMS Energy could suffer negative impacts to their reputations as a result of operational incidents, violations of corporate compliance policies, regulatory violations, or other events. This could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. It could also result in negative customer perception and increased regulatory oversight. Energy risk management strategies may not be effective in managing fuel and electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities to Consumers and CMS Energy or increased volatility of their earnings. Consumers is exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, coal, electricity, emission allowances, and RECs. Prices for natural gas, coal, electricity, emission allowances, and RECs may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose Consumers to commodity price risk. A substantial portion of Consumers’ operating expenses for its plants consists of the costs of obtaining these commodities. Consumers manages these risks using established policies and procedures, and it may use various contracts to manage these risks, including swaps, options, futures, and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that these strategies will be successful in managing Consumers’ pricing risk or that they will not result in net liabilities to Consumers as a result of future volatility in these markets. Natural gas prices in particular have been historically volatile. Consumers routinely enters into contracts to mitigate exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather, and changes in commodity prices associated with its gas distribution business. These contracts are executed in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which is designed to allow Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with those positions. Consumers does not always hedge the entire exposure of its operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the ability to hedge exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. As a result, to the extent the commodity markets are illiquid, Consumers may not be able to execute its risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than preferred at a given time. To the extent that unhedged positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a negative effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. The tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use taxes, employment-related taxes, and ongoing issues related to these tax matters. The judgments include determining reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and may be subject to challenge by the IRS and/or other taxing authorities. Unfavorable settlements of any of the issues related to these reserves at CMS Energy or Consumers could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to changing tax laws. Increases in local, state, or federal tax rates or other changes in tax laws could have adverse impacts on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Consumers is exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in its service territories. Consumers’ electric and gas utility businesses are affected by the economic conditions of the customers they serve. In Consumers’ service territories in Michigan, the economy has been affected adversely by economic and financial instability in the automotive and real estate sectors and by relatively high unemployment. The Michigan economy also has been affected negatively by the uncertainty in the financial and credit markets. If economic conditions in Michigan decline further, Consumers may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, economic conditions in Consumers’ service territory affect its collections of accounts receivable and levels of lost or stolen gas, which in turn impact its liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ energy sales and operations are affected by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year to year. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses are seasonal. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer cooling season and the winter heating season. Demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. Accordingly, their overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and winter heating season could have a material adverse affect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Unplanned power plant outages could be costly for Consumers. When unplanned maintenance work is required on power plants or other equipment, Consumers may be required to incur unplanned expenses and to make spot market purchases of electricity that exceed its costs of generation. If Consumers were unable to recover any of these increased costs in rates, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. A work interruption or other union actions could adversely affect CMS Energy and Consumers. Over 40 percent of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ employees are represented by a union. If these employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, or if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, CMS Energy and Consumers could experience a significant disruption in their operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations. If CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to match skill sets to future needs, they could encounter operating challenges and increased costs. These challenges could include a lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and delays in skill development. Additionally, higher costs could result from the use of contractors to replace employees, loss of productivity, and safety incidents. Failing to train replacement employees adequately and to transfer internal knowledge and expertise could affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ ability to manage and operate their businesses. If CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be affected negatively. Consumers may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal or natural gas, which could limit its ability to operate its electric generation facilities or serve its natural gas customers. Consumers is dependent on coal for a significant portion of its electric generating capacity. While Consumers has coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to Consumers. The suppliers under the agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to Consumers. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to Consumers under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If Consumers were unable to obtain its coal requirements under existing or future coal supply and transportation contracts, it may be required to purchase coal at higher 38 Table of Contents prices, or it may be forced to purchase electricity from higher cost generating resources in the Midwest Energy Market, which would increase Consumers’ working capital requirements. Consumers has firm interstate transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate deliveries of natural gas to its customers. Apart from the contractual and monetary remedies available to Consumers in the event of a counterparty’s failure to perform, there can be no assurances that the counterparties to these firm interstate transportation and supply agreements will fulfill their obligations to provide natural gas to Consumers. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to deliver natural gas to Consumers in certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If Consumers were unable to obtain its natural gas supply requirements under existing or future natural gas supply and transportation contracts, it could be required to purchase natural gas at higher prices from other sources or implement its natural gas curtailment program filed with the MPSC, which would increase Consumers’ working capital requirements and decrease its natural gas revenues. Electric industry regulation could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses. Federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically in the last two decades and could continue to change over the next several years. These changes could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal and state utility regulation. In CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ business planning and management of operations, they must address the effects of existing and proposed regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, regional transmission organizations, utility regulators, and taxing authorities. Adoption of new regulations by federal or state agencies, or changes to present regulations and interpretations of these regulations, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. There are multiple proceedings pending before FERC involving transmission rates, regional transmission organizations, and electric bulk power markets and transmission. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these electric industry restructuring proceedings on their liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Electric industry legislation could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses. The 2008 Energy Legislation, among other things, limits alternative electric supply to ten percent of weather-adjusted retail sales for the preceding calendar year for ROA. Proposals have been made to raise that limit, which, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ business. Proposals also have been made to increase the electric sales volume that will be required from renewable energy sources. Other new legislation or interpretations could change how the businesses of CMS Energy and Consumers operate, impact the ability of Consumers to recover costs through rate increases, or require CMS Energy or Consumers to incur additional expenses. The markets for alternative energy and distributed generation could impact financial results. Advances in technology could reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity, such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills, and photovoltaic (solar) cells, to a level that is competitive with that of fossil-fuel technology utilized by CMS Energy and Consumers to produce a majority of their electricity. It is also possible that electric customers could reduce their electric consumption significantly through demand-side energy conservation programs. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy electricity. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. 39 Table of Contents CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation, which could have an adverse effect on financial results. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation. Electric and gas rates for their utilities are set by the MPSC and cannot be increased without regulatory authorization. While Consumers is permitted by the 2008 Energy Legislation to self-implement rate changes six months after a rate filing with the MPSC, subject to certain limitations, if a final rate order from the MPSC provides for lower rates than Consumers self-implemented, Consumers must refund the difference, with interest. Also, the MPSC may delay or deny implementation of a rate increase upon showing of good cause. In addition, Consumers’ plans for making significant capital investments, including modifications to meet new environmental requirements and investment in new generation, could be affected adversely or could have a material adverse effect on Consumers if rate regulators fail to provide timely rate relief. Regulators seeking to avoid or minimize rate increases could resist raising customer rates sufficiently to permit Consumers to recover the full cost of modifications to meet environmental requirements and other prudent investments. In addition, because certain costs are mandated by state requirements for cost recovery, such as resource additions to meet Michigan’s renewable resource standard, regulators could be more inclined to oppose rate increases for other required items and investments. Rate regulators could also face pressure to avoid or limit rate increases for a number of reasons, including failure of Michigan’s economy to improve or diminishment of Consumers’ customer base. In addition to potentially affecting Consumers’ investment program, any limitation of cost recovery through rates could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. A further regulatory risk could arise from the MPSC’s adoption of mechanisms to decouple revenues from electricity and gas sales. The MPSC’s adoption or future treatment of these mechanisms could impact future revenues. FERC authorizes certain subsidiaries of CMS Energy to sell electricity at market-based rates. Failure of CMS Energy and Consumers to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. The various risks associated with the MPSC and FERC regulation of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses, which include the risk of adverse decisions in any number of rate or regulatory proceedings before either agency, could have a substantial negative effect on the companies’ investment plans and results of operations. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial statements, including their reported earnings, could be significantly impacted by convergence with International Financial Reporting Standards. The FASB is expected to make broad changes to GAAP as part of an overall initiative to converge U.S. standards with International Financial Reporting Standards. These changes could have significant impacts on the financial statements of CMS Energy and Consumers. Also, the SEC is considering incorporating International Financial Reporting Standards into the financial reporting system for U.S. registrants. A transition to International Financial Reporting Standards could significantly impact CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial results, since these standards differ from GAAP in many ways. One of the major differences is the lack of special accounting treatment for regulated activities under International Financial Reporting Standards, which could result in greater earnings volatility for CMS Energy and Consumers. CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to credit risk of those with whom they do business. CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom they do business. Adverse economic conditions or financial difficulties experienced by these counterparties could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ services or fulfill their contractual obligations, including performance and payment of damages. CMS Energy and Consumers depend on these counterparties to remit payments and perform services timely. Any delay or default in payment or performance of contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents In recent years, the capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented high levels of volatility and disruption. Market disruption and volatility could have a negative impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ lenders, suppliers, customers, and other counterparties, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. Adverse economic conditions could also have a negative impact on the loan portfolio of CMS Energy’s banking subsidiary, EnerBank. CMS Energy could be required to pay cash to certain security holders in connection with the optional conversion of their convertible securities. CMS Energy has issued two series of cash-convertible securities, of which an aggregate principal amount of $460 million was outstanding at December 31, 2010. If the trading price of CMS Energy’s common stock exceeds specified amounts at the end of a particular fiscal quarter, then holders of one or more series of these convertible securities will have the option to convert their securities in the following fiscal quarter, with the principal amount payable in cash by CMS Energy. Accordingly, if these trading price minimums are satisfied and security holders exercise their conversion rights, CMS Energy may be required to outlay a significant amount of cash to those security holders, which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s liquidity and financial condition. There are risks associated with Consumers’ significant capital investment program planned for the next five years. Consumers’ planned investments include an advanced metering infrastructure program, renewable power generation, gas compression, environmental controls, other electric and gas infrastructure to upgrade delivery systems, and, potentially, new power plants. The success of these investments depends on or could be affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, effective cost and schedule management during implementation, changes in commodity and other prices, operational performance, changes in environmental, legislative and regulatory requirements, and regulatory cost recovery. Consumers cannot predict the impact that any of these factors could have on the success of its capital investment program. It is possible that adverse events associated with these factors could have a material adverse effect on Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 