ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for CMS Energy and consolidated Consumers could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the following sections. The companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond the companies’ control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. The risk factors described in the following sections, as well as the other information included in this annual report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in securities of CMS Energy and Consumers. Risk factors of Consumers are also risk factors for CMS Energy. Risks Related to CMS Energy CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service obligations. Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations. Restrictions contained in Consumers’ preferred stock provisions and other legal restrictions, such as certain terms in its articles of incorporation, limit Consumers’ ability to pay dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy. At December 31, 2007, Consumers had $269 million of unrestricted retained earnings available to pay common stock dividends. If sufficient dividends are not paid to CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy may not be able to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its cash obligations, thereby adversely affecting its liquidity and financial condition. CMS Energy has substantial indebtedness that could limit its financial flexibility and hence its ability to meet its debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, CMS Energy had $1.891 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, including $178 million of subordinated indebtedness relating to its convertible preferred securities. $4.374 billion of subsidiary debt is not included in the preceding total. In April 2007, CMS Energy entered into the Seventh Amended and Restated Credit Agreement providing revolving credit and commitments in the amount of $300 million, which was increased to $550 million in January 2008. As of December 31, 2007, there were $278 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Seventh Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. CMS Energy and its subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The level of CMS Energy’s present and future indebtedness could have several important effects on its future operations, including, among others: • a significant portion of its cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in its existing debt arrangements require it to meet certain financial tests, which may affect its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business; • its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes may be limited; • it may be at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less leveraged; and • its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions may increase. CMS Energy’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. CMS Energy cannot make assurances that its business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness. If it is unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, it may be required to sell additional assets or obtain additional financing. CMS Energy cannot assure that additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. 25 CMS Energy cannot predict the outcome of claims regarding its participation in the development of Bay Harbor or other litigation in which substantial monetary claims are involved. As part of the development of Bay Harbor by certain subsidiaries of CMS Energy, pursuant to an agreement with the MDEQ, third parties constructed a golf course and park over several abandoned CKD piles, left over from the former cement plant operations on the Bay Harbor site. The third parties also undertook a series of remedial actions, including removing abandoned buildings and equipment; consolidating, shaping and covering CKD piles with soil and vegetation; removing CKD from streams and beaches; and constructing a leachate collection system at an identified seep. Leachate is formed when water passes through CKD. In 2002, CMS Energy sold its interest in Bay Harbor, but retained its obligations under environmental indemnifications entered into at the start of the project. In September 2004, the MDEQ issued a notice of noncompliance after finding high-pH leachate in Lake Michigan adjacent to the property. The MDEQ also alleged higher than acceptable levels of heavy metals, including mercury, in the leachate flow. In 2005, the EPA along with CMS Land and CMS Capital executed an AOC and approved a Removal Action Work Plan to address problems at Bay Harbor. Among other things, the plan called for the installation of collection trenches to capture high-pH leachate flow to the lake. Collection systems required under the plan have been installed and shoreline monitoring is ongoing. CMS Land and CMS Capital are required to address observed exceedances in pH, including required enhancements of the collection system. In May 2006, the EPA approved a pilot carbon dioxide enhancement plan to improve pH results in a specific area of the collection system. The enhanced system was installed in June 2006. CMS Land and CMS Capital also engaged in other enhancements of the installed collection systems. In November 2007, the EPA sent CMS Land and CMS Capital a letter identifying three separate areas representing approximately 700 feet of shoreline in which the EPA claimed pH levels were unacceptable. The letter also took the position that CMS Land and CMS Capital are required to remedy the claimed noncompliance. CMS Land and CMS Capital submitted a formal objection to the EPA’s conclusions. In their objections, CMS Land and CMS Capital noted that the AOC did not require perfection and that over 97 percent of the measured pH levels were in the correct range. Further, the limited number of exceedances were not much above the pH nine level set by the AOC and posed no threat to the public health and safety. In addition, CMS Land and CMS Capital noted in their objection that the actions they had already taken fully complied with the terms of the AOC. In January 2008, the EPA advised CMS Land and CMS Capital that it had rejected their objections, and that CMS Land and CMS Capital were obligated to submit a plan to augment measures to collect high pH leachate under the terms of the November 2007 EPA letter as modified in the January 2008 letter. CMS Land and CMS Capital submitted a proposed augmentation plan in February 2008. In February 2006, CMS Land and CMS Capital submitted to the EPA a proposed Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study (RIFS) for one of the CKD piles known as the East Park CKD pile. A similar RIFS is planned to be submitted for the remaining CKD piles in 2008. The EPA approved a schedule for near-term activities, which includes consolidating certain CKD materials and installing collection trenches in the East Park leachate release area. In June 2006, the EPA approved an East Park CKD Removal Action Work Plan and Final Engineering Design for Consolidation. However, the EPA has not approved the RIFS for the East Park. As a result of the installation of collection systems at the Bay Harbor sites, CMS Land and CMS Capital are collecting and treating 135,000 gallons of liquid per day and shipping it by truck for disposal at a nearby well and at a municipal wastewater treatment plant located in Traverse City, Michigan. To address both short term and longer-term disposal of liquid, CMS Land has filed two permit applications with the MDEQ and the EPA, the first to treat the collected leachate at the Bay Harbor sites before releasing the water to Lake Michigan and the second to dispose of it in a deep injection well in Alba, Michigan, that CMS Land or its affiliate would own and operate. In February 2008, the MDEQ and the EPA granted permits for CMS Land or its affiliate to construct and operate a deep injection well near Alba, Michigan in eastern Antrim County. Certain environmental groups and a local township have indicated they may challenge these permits before the agencies or the courts. 26 CMS Land and CMS Capital, the MDEQ, and the EPA have ongoing discussions concerning the long-term remedy for the Bay Harbor sites. These negotiations are addressing, among other things, issues relating to the disposal of leachate, the location and design of collection lines and upstream diversion of water, potential flow of leachate below the collection system, applicable criteria for various substances such as mercury, and other matters that are likely to affect the scope of remedial work CMS Land and CMS Capital may be obliged to undertake. Negotiations have been ongoing for over a year, but CMS Land and CMS Capital have not been able to resolve these issues with the regulators and they remain pending. CMS Land has entered into various access, purchase and settlement agreements with several of the affected landowners at Bay Harbor, and entered into a confidential settlement with one landowner to resolve a lawsuit filed by that landowner. We have received demands for indemnification relating to claims made by a property owner at Bay Harbor. CMS Land has purchased five unimproved lots and two lots with houses. CMS Energy has recorded a cumulative charge of $140 million, which includes accretion expense, for its obligations. An adverse outcome of this matter could, depending on the size of any indemnification obligation or liability under environmental laws, have a potentially significant adverse effect on CMS Energy’s financial condition and liquidity and could negatively impact CMS Energy’s results of operations. CMS Energy cannot predict the financial impact or outcome of this matter. CMS Energy retains contingent liabilities in connection with its asset sales. The agreements CMS Energy enters into for the sale of assets customarily include provisions whereby it is required to: • retain specified preexisting liabilities such as for taxes, pensions, or environmental conditions; • indemnify the buyers against specified risks, including the inaccuracy of representations and warranties it makes; and • make payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing adjustments, litigation, audits or other reviews. Many of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers may ultimately seek to enforce their rights under these contractual provisions, and the resolution of any disputes CMS Energy may have concerning them, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, liquidity and future results of operations. Risks Related to CMS Energy and Consumers CMS Energy and Consumers have financing needs and they may be unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets. CMS Energy and Consumers may be subject to liquidity demands pursuant to commercial commitments under guarantees, indemnities and letters of credit. CMS Energy continues to explore financing opportunities to supplement its financial plan. These potential opportunities include: entering into leasing arrangements and refinancing and/or issuing new capital markets debt, preferred stock and/or common equity. CMS Energy cannot guarantee the capital markets’ acceptance of its securities or predict the impact of factors beyond its control, such as actions of rating agencies. If CMS Energy is unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, there could be a material adverse effect upon its financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Similarly, Consumers currently plans to seek funds through the capital markets and commercial lenders. Entering into new financings is subject in part to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to Consumers’ securities issuances in particular. Consumers cannot guarantee the capital markets’ acceptance of its securities or predict the impact of factors beyond its control, such as actions of rating agencies. If Consumers is unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets to incur or refinance indebtedness, there could be a material adverse effect upon its liquidity and operations. 27 Certain of CMS Energy’s securities and those of its affiliates, including Consumers, are rated by various credit rating agencies. Any reduction or withdrawal of one or more of its credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ ability to access capital on acceptable terms and maintain commodity lines of credit and could make its cost of borrowing higher. If it is unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy may have to post collateral or make prepayments to certain of its suppliers pursuant to existing contracts with them. In addition, certain bonds of Consumers are supported by municipal bond insurance policies, and the interest rates on those bonds have been affected by ratings downgrades of bond insurers. Further, any adverse developments to Consumers, which provides dividends to CMS Energy, that result in a lowering of Consumers’ credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy’s credit ratings. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee that any of their current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Regulatory changes and other developments have resulted and could continue to result in increased competition in the domestic energy business. Generally, increased competition threatens market share in certain segments of CMS Energy’s business and can reduce its and Consumers’ profitability. As of January 1, 2002, the Customer Choice Act allows all electric customers in Michigan the choice of buying electric generation service from Consumers or an alternative electric supplier. Consumers had experienced, and could experience in the future, a significant increase in competition for generation services due to ROA. At December 31, 2007, alternative electric suppliers were providing 315 MW of generation service to ROA customers. This amount represents 4 percent of Consumers’ total distribution load, which is down from a high of 12 percent in 2004. Consumers cannot predict the total amount of electric supply load that may be lost to competitor suppliers in the future. Electric industry regulation could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ business, including their ability to recover costs from their customers. Federal and state regulation of electric utilities has changed dramatically in the last two decades and could continue to change over the next several years. These changes could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ business, financial condition and profitability. There are multiple proceedings pending before the FERC involving transmission rates, regional transmission organizations and electric bulk power markets and transmission. FERC is also reviewing the standards under which electric utilities are allowed to participate in wholesale power markets without price restrictions. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of these electric industry restructuring proceedings on their financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers could incur significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental standards and face difficulty in recovering these costs on a current basis. CMS Energy, Consumers, and their subsidiaries are subject to costly and increasingly stringent environmental regulations. They expect that the cost of future environmental compliance, especially compliance with clean air and water laws, will be significant. In March 2005, the EPA adopted the Clean Air Interstate Rule that requires additional coal-fired electric generating plant emission controls for nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide. Consumers plans to meet the nitrogen oxides requirements by installing equipment that reduces nitrogen oxides emissions and purchasing emissions allowances. Consumers also will meet the sulfur dioxide requirements by injecting a chemical that reduces sulfur dioxide emissions, installing scrubbers and purchasing emission allowances. Consumers plans to spend an additional $835 million for equipment installation through 2015. In March 2005, the EPA issued the CAMR, which requires initial reductions of mercury emissions from coal-fired electric generating plants by 2010 and further reductions by 2018. Certain portions of the CAMR were appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia by a number of states and other entities. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia decided the case on February 8, 2008, and determined that the 28 rules developed by the EPA were not consistent with the Clean Air Act. CMS Energy and Consumers continue to monitor the development of federal regulations in this area. In April 2006, Michigan’s governor proposed a plan that would result in mercury emissions reductions of 90 percent by 2015. We are working with the MDEQ on the details of this plan; however, we have developed preliminary cost estimates and a mercury emissions reduction scenario based on our best knowledge of control technology options and initially proposed requirements. We estimate that costs associated with Phase I of the state’s mercury plan will be approximately $220 million by 2010 and an additional $200 million by 2015. The EPA has alleged that some utilities have incorrectly classified plant modifications as “routine maintenance” rather than seeking permits from the EPA to modify their plants. Consumers responded to information requests from the EPA on this subject in 2000, 2002, and 2006. Consumers believes that it has properly interpreted the requirements of “routine maintenance.” If the EPA finds that its interpretation is incorrect, Consumers could be required to install additional pollution controls at some or all of its coal-fired electric generating plants and pay fines. Additionally, Consumers would need to assess the viability of continuing operations at certain plants. Several legislative proposals have been introduced in the United States Congress that would require reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide. These laws, or similar state laws or rules, if enacted, could require Consumers to replace equipment, install additional equipment for pollution controls, purchase allowances, curtail operations, or take other steps. CMS Energy and Consumers expect to collect fully from its customers, through the ratemaking process, these and other required environmental expenditures. However, if these expenditures are not recovered from customers in Consumers’ rates, CMS Energy and/or Consumers may be required to seek significant additional financing to fund these expenditures, which could strain their cash resources. We can give no assurances that CMS Energy and/or Consumers will have access to bank financing or capital markets to fund any such environmental expenditures. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under CMS Energy’s pension and postretirement benefit plans. CMS Energy has significant obligations in this area and holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below CMS Energy’s forecasted return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Also, changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and postretirement benefit plans. If CMS Energy is unable to successfully manage its pension and postretirement plan assets, its results of operations and financial position could be affected negatively. Periodic reviews of the values of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ assets could result in accounting charges. CMS Energy and Consumers are required by GAAP to review periodically the carrying value of their assets, including those that may be sold. Market conditions, the operational characteristics of their assets and other factors could result in recording additional impairment charges for their assets, which could have an adverse effect on their stockholders’ equity and their access to additional financing. In addition, they may be required to record impairment charges at the time they sell assets, depending on the sale prices they are able to secure and other factors. CMS Energy and Consumers may be adversely affected by regulatory investigations regarding “round-trip” trading by CMS MST as well as civil lawsuits regarding pricing information that CMS MST and CMS Field Services provided to market publications. As a result of round-trip trading transactions (simultaneous, prearranged commodity trading transactions in which energy commodities were sold and repurchased at the same price) at CMS MST, CMS Energy is under 29 investigation by the DOJ. CMS Energy received subpoenas in 2002 and 2003 from U.S. Attorneys’ Offices regarding investigations of those trades. CMS Energy responded to those subpoenas in 2003 and 2004. In March 2004, the SEC approved a cease-and-desist order settling an administrative action against CMS Energy relating to round-trip trading. The order did not assess a fine and CMS Energy neither admitted nor denied the order’s findings. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of the investigations. It is possible that the outcome in one or more of the investigations could, affect adversely CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers may be adversely affected by regulatory investigations and civil lawsuits regarding pricing information that CMS MST and CMS Field Services provided to market publications. CMS Energy has notified appropriate regulatory and governmental agencies that some employees at CMS MST and CMS Field Services appeared to have provided inaccurate information regarding natural gas trades to various energy industry publications which compile and report index prices. CMS Energy is cooperating with an ongoing investigation by the DOJ regarding this matter. CMS Energy is unable to predict the outcome of the DOJ investigation and what effect, if any, the investigation will have on CMS Energy. CMS Energy, CMS MST, CMS Field Services, Cantera Natural Gas, Inc. (the company that purchased CMS Field Services) and Cantera Gas Company are named as defendants in various lawsuits arising as a result of alleged false natural gas price reporting. Allegations include manipulation of NYMEX natural gas futures and options prices, price-fixing conspiracies, and artificial inflation of natural gas retail prices in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Tennessee, and Wyoming. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of the investigations. It is possible that the outcome in one or more of the investigations could affect adversely CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ revenues and results of operations are subject to risks that are beyond their control, including but not limited to future terrorist attacks or related acts of war. The cost of repairing damage to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ facilities due to storms, natural disasters, wars, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events, in excess of insurance recoveries and reserves established for these repairs, may adversely impact their results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The occurrence or risk of occurrence of future terrorist activity and the high cost or potential unavailability of insurance to cover this terrorist activity may impact their results of operations and financial condition in unpredictable ways. These actions could also result in disruptions of power and fuel markets. In addition, their natural gas distribution system and pipelines could be directly or indirectly harmed by future terrorist activity. Consumers may not prevail in the exercise of its regulatory-out rights under the MCV PPA. The MCV Partnership, which leases and operates the MCV Facility, contracted to sell electricity to Consumers for a 35-year period beginning in 1990. The cost that Consumers incurred under the MCV PPA exceeded the recovery amount allowed by the MPSC, including $39 million in 2007, until it exercised the regulatory-out provision in the MCV PPA in September 2007. This action limited its capacity and fixed energy payments to the MCV Partnership to the amounts that it collects from its customers. However, it uses the direct savings from the RCP, after allocating a portion to customers, to offset a portion of its capacity and fixed energy underrecoveries expense. The MCV Partnership has notified Consumers that it disputes its right to exercise the regulatory-out provision. Consumers believes that the provision is valid and fully effective, but cannot assure that it will prevail in the event of a proceeding on this issue. As a result of our exercise of the regulatory-out provision, the MCV Partnership may, under certain circumstances, have the right to terminate or reduce the amount of capacity sold under the MCV PPA. If the MCV Partnership terminates the MCV PPA or reduces the amount of capacity sold under the MCV PPA, Consumers would seek to replace the lost capacity to maintain an adequate electric Reserve Margin. This could involve entering 30 into a new power purchase agreement or entering into electric capacity contracts on the open market. Consumers cannot predict its ability to enter into such contracts at a reasonable price. Consumers also is unable to predict regulatory approval of the terms and conditions of such contracts, or that the MPSC would allow full recovery of its incurred costs. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the financial impact or outcome of these matters. Consumers’ energy risk management strategies may not be effective in managing fuel and electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities to Consumers or increased volatility of its earnings. Consumers is exposed to changes in market prices for natural gas, coal, electricity and emission credits. Prices for natural gas, coal, electricity and emission credits may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose Consumers to commodity price risk. A substantial portion of Consumers’ operating expenses for its plants consists of the costs of obtaining these commodities. Consumers manages these risks using established policies and procedures, and it may use various contracts to manage these risks, including swaps, options, futures and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that these strategies will be successful in managing Consumers’ pricing risk, or that they will not result in net liabilities to Consumers as a result of future volatility in these markets. Natural gas prices in particular have historically been volatile. Consumers routinely enters into contracts to offset its positions, such as hedging exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather and changes in commodity prices associated with its gas distribution business. These positions are taken in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which allows Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with those positions. However, Consumers does not always hedge the entire exposure of its operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the ability to hedge exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. As a result, to the extent the commodity markets are illiquid, Consumers may not be able to execute its risk management strategies, which could result in greater open positions than preferred at a given time. To the extent that open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can improve or worsen CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial condition or results of operations. Changes in taxation as well as inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations. CMS Energy and Consumers are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. The tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use taxes, employment-related taxes and ongoing issues related to these tax matters. The judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by IRS and/or other taxing authorities. Unfavorable settlements of any of the issues related to these reserves at CMS Energy or Consumers Energy could adversely affect their financial condition or results of operations. Consumers is exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in its service territories. Consumers’ electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers it serves. In its service territories in Michigan, the economy has been sluggish and hampered by negative developments in the manufacturing industry and limited growth in non-manufacturing sectors of the state’s economy. In the event economic conditions in Michigan or the region continue to decline, Consumers may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, economic conditions in its service territory impact its collections of accounts receivable and its financial results. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ energy sales and operations are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year to year. Consumers’ electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating, and demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. Accordingly, its overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal 31 basis. Mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and winter heating season will negatively impact CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations and cash flows. Unplanned power plant outages may be costly for Consumers. Unforeseen maintenance may be required to safely produce electricity. As a result of unforeseen maintenance, Consumers may be required to make spot market purchases of electricity that exceed its costs of generation. Its financial condition or results of operations may be negatively affected if it is unable to recover those increased costs. Failure to implement successfully new processes and information systems could interrupt our operations. CMS Energy and Consumers depend on numerous information systems for operations and financial information and billings. They are in the midst of a multi-year company-wide initiative to improve existing processes and implement new core information systems. Failure to implement successfully new processes and new core information systems could interrupt their operations. Consumers may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit its ability to operate its facilities. Consumers is dependent on coal for much of its electric generating capacity. While Consumers has coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to Consumers. The suppliers under the agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to Consumers. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to Consumers under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If it is unable to obtain its coal requirements under existing or future coal supply and transportation contracts, Consumers may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or it may be forced to make additional MWh purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the Midwest energy market. Higher coal costs increase its working capital requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 