ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in ThermoGenesis’ common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing ThermoGenesis. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair ThermoGenesis’ business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our New Products Are at Initial Market Introduction, and We Are Not Sure the Market Will Accept Them. The market acceptance of our new products will depend upon the medical community and third-party payers accepting the products as clinically useful, reliable, accurate, and cost effective compared to existing and future products or procedures. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to adequately train technicians on how to use the AXP, MXP and Res-Q Systems and future products. Even if our new products are released for sale, their use may not be recommended by the medical profession or hospitals unless acceptable reimbursement from healthcare and third party payers is available. Failure of 16 Table of Contents these new products to achieve significant market share could have material adverse effects on our long term business, financial condition, and results of operation. A Significant Portion of our Revenue is to Customers in Foreign Countries. We may Lose Revenues, Market Share, and Profits due to Exchange Rate Fluctuations and Other Factors related to our Foreign Business. In the year ended June 30, 2009, sales to customers in foreign countries comprised approximately 42% of our revenues. Our foreign business is subject to economic, political and regulatory uncertainties and risks that are unique to each area of the world. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the prices that our foreign customers are willing to pay, and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial position and results. Risks Related to Our Operations Our Inability to Protect Our Patents, Trademarks, Trade Secrets and Other Proprietary Rights could Adversely Impact Our Competitive Position. We believe that our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary rights. We use various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, vendors, and customers, to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how for our products. We currently hold patents for products, and have patents pending for additional products that we market or intend to market. However, our actions to establish and protect our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. If our products are challenged as infringing upon patents of other parties, we may be required to modify the design of the product, obtain a license, or litigate the issues, all of which may have an adverse business effect on us. Any Failure to Achieve and Maintain the High Manufacturing Standards that our Products Require may Seriously Harm our Business. Our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel as well as our vendors. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, design defects or component failures, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. We have from time to time voluntarily recalled certain products. Despite our very high manufacturing standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of errors, defects or failures. If we are unable to manufacture our products in accordance with necessary quality standards, or if we are unable to procure additional high-quality manufacturing facilities, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. We are Dependent on our Suppliers and Manufacturers to Meet Existing Regulations. Certain of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject to heavy government regulations, including FDA Quality System Regulation compliance, in the operation of their facilities, products and manufacturing processes. Any adverse action by the FDA against our suppliers or manufacturers could delay supply or manufacture of component products required to be integrated or sold with our products. There are no assurances we will be successful in locating an alternative supplier or manufacturer to meet product shipment or launch deadlines. As a result, our sales, contractual commitments and financial forecasts may be significantly affected by any such delays. Our Lack of Production Experience May Delay Producing Our New Products. We have manufactured our Blood Plasma Thawers, Freezers and BioArchive Systems for a number of years. We do not have significant experience in manufacturing the Res-Q, the CryoSeal System, the AXP and MXP devices or in 17 Table of Contents the manufacture of disposables. There can be no assurance that our current resources and manufacturing facility can handle a significant increase in orders for either the BioArchive System or the CryoSeal System. If we are unable to meet demand for sales, we would need to contract with third-party manufacturers. No assurances can be made that such third-party manufacturers can be retained, or retained on terms favorable to us. Inability to have products manufactured by third parties at a competitive cost could erode anticipated margins for such products, and negatively impact our profitability. Dependence on Suppliers for Disposable Products and Custom Components May Impact the Production Schedule. The Company obtains certain disposable products and custom components from a limited number of suppliers. If the supplier raises the price or discontinues production, the Company may have to find another qualified supplier to provide the item. In the event that it becomes necessary for us to find another supplier, we would first be required to qualify the quality assurance systems and product quality of that alternative supplier. Any operational issues with, or transfer between, qualified suppliers may impact the production schedule, therefore delaying revenues, and this may cause the cost of disposables or key components to increase. Our Products May Be Subject to Product Recalls which May Harm Our Reputation and Divert Our Managerial and Financial Resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order the mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds our products might cause adverse health consequences or death. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects (including labeling defects). In the past we have initiated voluntary recalls of some of our products and we could do so in the future. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers, divert managerial and financial resources and negatively impact our profitability. Quality Problems with our Products or Processes could Harm our Reputation for Producing High Quality Products and Decrease our Future Revenues. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications and product performance during evaluations and validations are critical to the marketing success of our products. If we fail to meet our customer’s quality standards our reputation could be damaged and we could lose current and potential customers. Our future revenues could decline as a result. All of our Operations are Conducted at a Single Location. Any Disruption at our Facility could Delay Revenues or Increase our Expenses. All of our operations are conducted at a single location although we contract the manufacturing of certain disposables and components. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, through insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. We are Heavily Reliant on a Single Distributor to Market and Sell our AXP Products. GEHC is the primary distributor of the AXP Platform. We have limited control over their sales and marketing efforts for these products. Since the AXP Platform products are a significant portion of our revenues and projected revenue growth, a delay or failure by our distributor to successfully market these products may decrease our future revenues and competitive advantage. Our Business is Indirectly Subject to Customer and Distributor Inventory Requirements and Continuity of Inventory Purchasing. Our end user customers may have separate agreements with our distributors that require them to hold 18 Table of Contents a certain level of inventory. Similarly, other customers have historically purchased ahead of their utilization to insure growth within their business, particularly for the processing of stem cells. Given the tightening of credit and other financial constraints, including downturns in collection and processing for cord blood, our customers could reduce the amount of inventory levels our distributors hold, or which they hold internally. If that were to occur, sales of our products could decline significantly, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance in any period where such events occur. We are Heavily Reliant on a Single Distributor to Market and Sell our MXP and Res-Q Products. Currently, SpineSmith is sole distributor of our MXP and Res-Q products. For orthopedic applications, SpineSmith has exclusive distribution rights in the U.S. and non-exclusive in the rest of the world. We have limited control over their sales and marketing efforts for these products. While we are looking for additional distributors outside the orthopedic application, we are relying on our distributor for a significant portion of our projected revenue growth, A delay or failure by our distributor to successfully market these products may decrease our revenues and competitive advantage. Failure to Retain or Hire Key Personnel May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Sustain or Grow Our Business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing and managerial personnel and attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel in these areas. Our future success partially depends upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. The inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and future financial condition. Risks Related to Operating Results and Financial Markets We Have Incurred Net Losses since Our Inception and Expect Losses to Continue. Except for net income of $11,000 for fiscal 1994, we have not been profitable since our inception. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we had a net loss of $8,550,000 and an accumulated deficit at June 30, 2009, of $98,359,000. We will continue to incur significant costs as we develop and market our current products and related applications. Although we are executing on our business plan to develop and market launch new products, continuing losses may impair our ability to fully meet our objectives for new product sales. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future to Fund Our Operations. We May be Unable to Raise Funds When Needed or on Acceptable Terms. During the year ended June 30, 2009, our operating activities used cash of $8,757,000. As of June 30, 2009, we had a cash and short investments balance of $15,631,000. Based on our cash and short-term investments balance, historical trends, planned cost reductions and future revenue projections, we believe our current funds are sufficient to provide for our projected needs to maintain operations and working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if actual sales do not meet expectations, or product development, marketing and production costs increase significantly, we may need to seek additional financing beyond the next 12 months. Any additional equity financings may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. The Continuing Crisis in the U.S. and World Financial and Securities Markets Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on our Customers’ Business and Effect our Operations and Revenues. Our products are purchased by cord blood banks and hospitals. We believe these entities have been negatively affected by 19 Table of Contents the deterioration in the U.S. and global economies in several ways. For instance, cord blood banks and hospitals are facing increased pressure from reduction in donations or in government funding that support their operations. The current economic crisis heightens the risk that our customers may lack the funding or credit facilities that they may have previously used for acquiring our products. Such credit or funding restrictions could delay or lower our future revenues. The Preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in Accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Requires Us to Make Estimates, Judgments, and Assumptions that may Ultimately Prove to be Incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If the underlying estimates are ultimately proven to be incorrect, subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements. Restating consolidated financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. We and our Customers are Subject to Various Political, Economic and Regulatory Changes in the Healthcare Industry that Could Force us to Modify how we Develop and Price our Components, Manufacturing Capabilities and Services, and could Harm our Business. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is influenced by changing political, economic and regulatory factors. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state levels. Regulations affecting the healthcare industry in general, and the medical device industry in particular, are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. In addition, these regulations may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants, including medical device companies, operate. While we are not aware of any legislation or regulations specifically targeting the medical device industry that are currently pending, any such regulations could impair our ability to operate profitably. In addition, any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in the cessation of portions or all of our operations, impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to continue or expand our operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our Business is Heavily Regulated, Resulting in Increased Costs of Operations and Delays in Product Sales. Many of our products require FDA approval or clearance to sell in the U.S. and will require approvals from comparable agencies to sell in foreign countries. These authorizations may limit the U.S. or foreign markets in which our products may be sold. Although the majority of our products related to freezing blood components are currently exempt from the requirement to file a 510(k) or PMA, that situation may change in the future if the FDA moves to regulate cell therapy products. In anticipation of possible future regulation by the FDA, the Company has filed, and is maintaining, a Master File on the BioArchive System and the AXP Platform. However, currently the BioArchive, AXP, and the ThermoLine products are being marketed and sold worldwide. Further, our products must be manufactured under principles of our quality system for continued CE-Marking so they can continue to be marketed and sold in Europe. These principles are similar to the quality system regulations of both the FDA and California Department of Health. Failure to comply with these quality system requirements and regulations may subject the Company to delays in production while it corrects deficiencies found by the FDA, the State of California, or the Company’s Notifying European Body as a result of any audit of our quality system. If we are found to be out of compliance, we could receive a Warning Letter from the FDA or even be temporarily shut down in manufacturing while the nonconformances are rectified. 20 Table of Contents Competition in Our Industry is Intense and Will Likely Involve Companies with Greater Resources than We Have. We hope to develop a competitive advantage in the medical applications of our products, but there are many competitors that are substantially larger and who possess greater financial resources and more personnel than we have. Our current principal market is cord blood banks. With regard to the BioArchive System and AXP Platform, numerous larger and better-financed medical device manufacturers may choose to enter this market as it develops. The CryoSeal System may face competition from major plasma fractionators that currently sell fibrin glue sourced from pooled plasma outside the U.S. Influence By the Government and Insurance Companies May Adversely Impact Sales of Our Products. Our business may be materially affected by continuing efforts by government, third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to reduce the costs of healthcare. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing and profit margins of certain healthcare products are subject to government controls. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to place pressure on the pricing of healthcare products. As a result, continuing efforts to contain healthcare costs may result in reduced sales or price reductions for our products. To date, we are not aware of any direct impact on our pricing or product sales due to such efforts by governments to contain healthcare costs, and we do not anticipate any immediate impact in the near future. Product Liability and Uninsured Risks May Adversely Affect the Continuing Operations. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness, or death. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief or by groups seeking to represent a class. We also may be required to recall certain of our products should they become damaged or if they are defective. We are not aware of any material product liability claim against us. However, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. We maintain a general liability policy that includes product liability coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per year in the aggregate. However, a product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or future financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Trading Prices for our Common Stock Have Been, and May Continue To Be, Volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to be volatile in the future. Trading price fluctuations can be caused by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: • Variations in operating results, • Regulatory actions, such as product recalls, • Governmental regulatory acts, • Biological or medical discoveries, • Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, and • Market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. The closing price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $6.40 to a low of $0.31 during the five year period from July 1, 2004 to June 30, 2009. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. In our last fiscal year, the stock market experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations due to the unprecedented turmoil and upheaval of the credit markets and the financial services industry, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and has adversely affected the market price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents If the Price of our Common Stock Does Not Meet the Requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market Stock Exchange, Our Shares may be Delisted. Our Ability to Publicly or Privately Sell Equity Securities and the Liquidity of Our Common Stock Could be Adversely Affected if We Are Delisted. On October 17, 2008, NASDAQ temporarily suspended one of the listing requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market that requires a company’s minimum bid price to be above $1.00 per share. This suspension was extended until July 31, 2009. As of July 31, 2009, our stock price was below $1.00 per share. If our share price remains below $1.00, our shares may be delisted or the Company may have to take other action to avoid delisting. Delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 