ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in ThermoGenesis’ common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing ThermoGenesis. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair ThermoGenesis’ business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our New Products Are at Initial Market Introduction, and We Are Not Sure the Market Will Accept Them. The market acceptance of our new products will depend upon the medical community and third-party payers accepting the products as clinically useful, reliable, accurate, and cost effective compared to existing and future products or procedures. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to adequately train technicians on how to use the CryoSeal System, the AXP and MXP Platforms and our products currently in development. Even if our new product systems are clinically adopted, the use may not be recommended by the medical profession or hospitals unless acceptable reimbursement from health care and third party payers is available. Failure of these new products to achieve significant market share could have material adverse effects on our long term business, financial condition, and results of operation. 11 Table of Contents We have Limited Experience in the Veterinary Market, which may Negatively Affect our Ability to Develop Effective Therapies and Generate Sufficient Revenues. Our products have not been used commercially outside of the human medical market. Although we are performing extensive research and development activities and have aligned ourselves with UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine (Veterinary), we have no experience in the equine stem cell therapy market. We may not be able to effectively develop and market these services. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully operate this business. Our efforts in Vantus to expand into this business, have and will continue to require, increased operating and capital costs. Our limited experience could result in an inability to attract and retain customers, generate sufficient revenues and achieve profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in marketing and operating this new business or, even if we are successful in doing so, that we will not experience additional losses. Our Inability to Protect Our Patents, Trademarks, and Other Proprietary Rights could Adversely Impact Our Competitive Position. We believe that our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our patents, trademarks, and proprietary rights. We currently hold patents for products, and have patents pending for additional products that we market or intend to market. However, our actions to establish and protect our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. If our products are challenged as infringing upon patents of other parties, we will be required to modify the design of the product, obtain a license, or litigate the issues, all of which may have an adverse business effect on us. Failure to Protect Our Trade Secrets May Assist Our Competitors. We use various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, vendors, and customers, to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how for our products. However, such methods may not provide complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not obtain our know-how, or independently develop the same or similar technology. We prepare and file for patent protection on aspects of our technology which we think will be integrated into final products early in design phases, thereby attempting to mitigate the potential risks. Our Lack of Production Experience May Delay Producing Our New Products. We have manufactured our Blood Plasma Thawers, Freezers and BioArchive Systems for a number of years. We do not have significant experience in manufacturing the CryoSeal System, the AXP and MXP devices or in the manufacture of disposables. There can be no assurance that our current resources and manufacturing facility could handle a significant increase in orders for either the BioArchive System or the CryoSeal System. If we are unable to meet demand for sales of the new systems, we would need to contract with third-party manufacturers for the backlog, and no assurances can be made that such third-party manufacturers can be retained, or retained on terms favorable to us and our pricing of the equipment. Inability to have products manufactured by third parties at a competitive price will erode anticipated margins for such products, and negatively impact our profitability. Dependence on Suppliers for Disposable Products and Custom Components May Impact the Production Schedule. The Company obtains certain disposable products and custom components from a limited number of suppliers. If the supplier raises the price or discontinues production, the Company may have to find another qualified supplier to provide the item. In the event that it becomes necessary for us to find another supplier, we would first be required to qualify the quality assurance systems and product quality of that alternative supplier. Any operational issues with, or transfer between qualified suppliers may impact the production schedule, therefore delaying revenues, and may cause the price of disposables or key components to increase. 12 Table of Contents Quality Problems with our Products or Processes could Harm our Reputation for Producing High Quality Products and Decrease our Future Revenues. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications and product performance during evaluations and validations are critical to the marketing success of our products. If we fail to meet our customer’s quality standards our reputation could be damaged, we could lose current and potential customers and our revenues could decline as a result. All of our Operations are Conducted at a Single Location. Any Disruption at our Facility could Delay Revenues or Increase our Expenses. All of our operations are conducted at a single location although we contract our manufacturing of certain disposables and components. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. We are Heavily Reliant on a Single Distributor to Market and Sell our AXP Products. GEHC is the primary distributor of the AXP Platform. We have limited control over their sales and marketing efforts for these products. Since the AXP Platform products are a significant portion of our revenues and projected revenue growth, a delay or failure by our distributor to successfully market these products may decrease our revenues and competitive advantage. Financial and Market Risks We Have Incurred Net Losses since Our Inception and Expect Losses to Continue. Except for net income of $11,246 for fiscal 1994, we have not been profitable since our inception. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we had a net loss of $9,181,000, and an accumulated deficit at June 30, 2008, of $89,809,000. We will continue to incur significant costs as we continue our efforts to develop and market our current products and related applications. Although we are executing on our business plan to develop and market launch new products, continuing losses may impair our ability to fully meet our objectives for new product sales. Failure to Retain or Hire Key Personnel May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Sustain or Grow Our Business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing and managerial personnel and attracting and retaining additional highly qualified personnel in these areas. Our future success partially depends upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. The inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and financial condition. Product Liability and Uninsured Risks May Adversely Affect the Continuing Operations. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness, or death. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief or by groups seeking to represent a class. We also may be required to recall certain of our products should they become damaged or if they are defective. We are not aware of any material product liability claim against us. However, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. Further, we maintain a general liability policy that includes product liability coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per year in the aggregate. However, a product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 13 Table of Contents A Significant Portion of our Revenue is to Customers in Foreign Countries. We may Lose Revenues, Market Share, and Profits due to Exchange Rate Fluctuations and Other Factors related to our Foreign Business. In the year ended June 30, 2008, sales to customers in foreign countries comprised approximately 41% of our revenues. Our foreign business is subject to economic, political and regulatory uncertainties and risks that are unique to each area of the world. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the prices that our foreign customers are willing to pay, and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial condition and operations. The Preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in Accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Requires Us to Make Estimates, Judgments, and Assumptions that may Ultimately Prove to be Incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If the underlying estimates are ultimately proven to be incorrect, subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements. Restating consolidated financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Our Business is Heavily Regulated, Resulting in Increased Costs of Operations and Delays in Product Sales. Most of our products require FDA approval or clearance to sell in the U.S. and will require approvals from comparable agencies to sell our products in foreign countries. These authorizations may limit the U.S. or foreign markets in which our products may be sold or circumscribe applications for U.S. or foreign markets in which our products may be sold. Although the majority of our products related to freezing blood components are currently exempt from the requirement to file a 510(k) or PMA, that situation may change in the future as the FDA moves to regulate cell therapy products being processed by the BioArchive System and/or AXP Platform. In anticipation of possible future regulation by the FDA, the Company has filed, and is maintaining, a Master File on the BioArchive System and the AXP Platform. However, currently the BioArchive, AXP and the ThermoLine™ products are being marketed and sold worldwide. Further, our products must be manufactured under principals of our quality system for continued CE Marking that allows our products to be marketed and sold in Europe, which are similar to the quality system regulations of both the FDA and California Department of Health. Failure to comply with those quality system requirements and regulations may subject the Company to delays in production while it corrects any deficiency found by either the FDA, the State of California, or the Company’s Notifying European Body during any audit of our quality system. If we are found to be out of compliance, we could receive warning letters or even be temporarily shut down in manufacturing while the non-conformances are rectified. Competition in Our Industry is Intense and Will Likely Involve Companies with Greater Resources than We Have. We hope to develop a competitive advantage in the medical applications of our products, but there are many competitors that are substantially larger and who possess greater financial resources and personnel than we have. Our current principal market is cord blood banks. With regard to the BioArchive System and AXP Platform, numerous larger and better-financed medical device manufacturers may choose to enter this market as it develops. The CryoSeal System may face competition from major plasma fractionators that currently sell fibrin glue sourced from pooled plasma outside the U.S. 14 Table of Contents Influence By the Government and Insurance Companies May Adversely Impact Sales of Our Products. Our business may be materially affected by continuing efforts by government, third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to reduce the costs of healthcare. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing and profit margins of certain healthcare products are subject to government controls. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to place pressure on the pricing of healthcare products. As a result, continuing efforts to contain healthcare costs may result in reduced sales or price reductions for our products. To date, we are not aware of any direct impact on our pricing or product sales due to such efforts by governments to contain healthcare costs, and we do not anticipate any immediate impact in the near future. We are Dependent on our Suppliers and Manufacturers to Meet Existing Regulations. Certain of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject to heavy government regulations, including FDA Quality System Regulation compliance, in the operation of their facilities, products and manufacturing processes. Any adverse action by the FDA against our suppliers or manufacturers could delay supply or manufacture of component products required to be integrated or sold with our products. There are no assurances we will be successful in locating an alternative supplier or manufacturer to meet product shipment or launch deadlines. As a result, our sales, contractual commitments and financial forecasts may be significantly affected by any such delays. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 