ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Cesca Therapeutics Inc. common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Lack of Demonstrated Clinical Utility of Cord Blood Derived Stem Cells Beyond Hematopoietic Transplantation May Result in a Decline in Demand for Cord Blood Banking Services, Adversely Affecting Sales of Our Products. Transplants using stem cells derived from cord blood and cord tissue have become a standard procedure for treating blood cell lineage disorders including leukemia, lymphoma and anemia. However, clinical research demonstrating the utility of cord blood stem cells for use in treating other diseases or injuries has been minimal, leaving claims of broad clinical utility of cord blood stem cells by cord blood banks largely unsubstantiated. The low utilization rate of banked cord blood samples coupled with the lack of demonstrated clinical results for multiple treatment indications has led to consumer skepticism regarding the benefits of cord blood banking and in turn, a significant reduction in collection rates in a number of geographies in Europe and the U.S. A continued lack of investment in the research and development of supporting clinical data for additional applications may lead to greater skepticism globally, further adversely affecting demand for cord blood banking services and our revenues. We have Limited Operating History In the Emerging Regenerative Medicine Industry. Through the merger with TotipotentRX, we are in the business of research, development and commercialization of autologous cell-based therapeutics for use in the emerging regenerative medicine industry, and therefore, we have a limited operating history in such industry on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. We will be subject to the risks inherent in the operation of a company in an emerging industry such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, and governmental regulation. Our Potential Products and Technologies Are In Early Stages Of Development. The development of new cell therapy products is a highly risky undertaking, and there can be no assurance that any future research and development efforts we may undertake will be successful. Our potential products in vascular, orthopedic, hematological/oncological and wound care indications will require extensive additional research and development and regulatory approval before any commercial introduction. There can be no assurance that any future research, development and clinical trial efforts will result in viable products or meet efficacy standards. We Intend To Rely On Third Parties For Certain Functions In Conducting Clinical Trials Of Our Product Candidates. We intend to rely on third parties for certain clinical trial activities of our products. In this regard, we have renewed and expanded our agreement with Fortis Healthcare Limited, a hospital chain networked throughout India and Asia, for contract clinical trial services programs among other services. The agreement expires in August 2017. Termination of this agreement could jeopardize or delay development of our products. Delays In The Commencement Or Completion Of Clinical Testing Of Our Products Could Result In Increased Costs To Us And Delay Our Ability To Generate Revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: 17 Table of Contents · Obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · Reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites for Phase II and III trials; · Obtaining proper devices for any or all of the product candidates; · Obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and · Recruiting participants for a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: · Failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements; · Inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; · Failure to achieve certain efficacy and/or safety standards; · Reports of serious adverse events including but not limited to death of trial subjects; or · Lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Our clinical therapy candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs that we expect to be pursuing. We May Seek To Enter Into Collaborative Arrangements To Develop and Commercialize Our Products Which May Not Be Successful. We may seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize some of our potential products both in North America and international markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that our current or future collaborative arrangements will be successful. A Significant Portion of our Revenue is Derived from Customers Outside the United States. We may Lose Revenues, Market Share, and Profits due to Exchange Rate Fluctuations, Political and Economic Changes Related to our Foreign Business. In the year ended June 30, 2014, sales to customers outside the U.S. comprised approximately 57% of our revenues. This compares to 55% in fiscal 2013. Our foreign business is subject to economic, political and regulatory uncertainties and risks that are unique to each area of the world. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the prices that our foreign customers are willing to pay, and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial position and results. The Loss of a Significant Distributor or End User Customer may Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Revenues from three significant distributors/customers comprised 39% of our revenues for the year ended June 30, 2014. The loss of a large end user customer or distributor may decrease our revenues. We are Reliant on Highly Specialized Distributors and Regulatory Approval to Market and Sell Our Bone Marrow Processing System. Although we have added distributors in other territories, we may not be able to expand our sales of in vivo applications utilizing bone marrow processing devices until clinical trials are conducted. Since the MXP, Res-Q, and VXP products are projected as a significant portion of our near-term revenue growth, a delay in finding competent distributors in the clinical space and/or a delay or failure to complete clinical trials and each on-label regulatory approval may adversely affect our future revenues and competitive advantage. 18 Table of Contents We may be Exposed to Liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any Determination that we Violated these Laws could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse Results of Legal Proceedings could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of their merits, legal proceedings may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on a portion of our business operations or a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations We May Not Be Able to Successfully Integrate our Business, or to Realize the Anticipated Synergies of the Combined Businesses. Our completed merger with TotipotentRX represents a significant investment by both companies. The integration of the two companies is requiring significant attention and resources of management which could reduce the likelihood of achievement of other corporate goals. Failure to quickly and adequately integrate operations and personnel could adversely affect the combined company’s business and its ability to achieve its objectives and strategy. The additional financing needs created by the combined company will also require additional management time to address. There is no assurance that we will realize synergies in the scientific, clinical, regulatory, or other areas as we currently contemplate. We Do Not Have Commercial-Scale Manufacturing Capability And Lack Commercial Manufacturing Experience. We operate GMP manufacturing facilities for both devices and cellular production; however, they are not of sufficient size for medium to large commercial production of product candidates. We will not have large scale experience in cell-drug formulation or manufacturing, and will lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. Accordingly, we expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our current or future products, depriving us of potential product revenues and resulting in additional losses. We Have Limited Sales, Marketing and Distribution Experience in Pharmaceutical Products. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with current collaborators or others to perform such activities or that such effort will be successful. If we decide to market any of our new products directly, we must either partner, acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may not be available to us or, even if available, divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on further product development efforts. 19 Table of Contents Our Inability to Protect our Patents, Trademarks, Trade Secrets and other Proprietary Rights could Adversely Impact our Competitive Position. We believe that our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we commit substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary rights. We use various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, vendors, and customers, to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how for our products. We currently hold patents for products, and have patents pending in certain countries for additional products that we market or intend to market. However, our actions to establish and protect our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. If our products are challenged as infringing upon patents of other parties, we may be required to modify the design of the product, obtain a license, or litigate the issues, all of which may have an adverse business effect on us. We may be Subject to Claims that our Products or Processes Infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of Others, which may Cause us to Pay Unexpected Litigation Costs or Damages, Modify our Products or Processes or Prevent us from Selling our Products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may nevertheless claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property and other rights. Our strategies of capitalizing on growing international demand as well as developing new innovative products across multiple business lines present similar infringement claim risks both internationally and in the U.S. as we expand the scope of our product offerings and markets. We compete with other companies for contracts in some small or specialized industries, which increases the risk that the other companies will develop overlapping technologies leading to an increased possibility that infringement claims will arise. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. In order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. We may not be able to Protect our Intellectual Property in Countries Outside the United States. Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revisions. The laws of some countries do not protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. This is particularly relevant to us as a significant amount of our current and projected future sales are outside of the United States. Third parties may attempt to oppose the issuance of patents to us in foreign countries by initiating opposition proceedings. Opposition proceedings against any of our patent filings in a foreign country could have an adverse effect on our corresponding patents that are issued or pending in the United States. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our patents or our competitors’ patents that have been issued in countries other than the U.S. This could result in substantial costs, divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any Failure to Achieve and Maintain the High Design and Manufacturing Standards that our Products Require may Seriously Harm our Business. Our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel as well as our vendors. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, design defects or component failures could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Additionally, the large amount of AXP disposable inventory certain distributors and end-users maintain may delay the identification of a manufacturing error and expand the financial impact. A manufacturing error or defect, or previously undetected design defect, or uncorrected impurity or variation in a raw material component, either unknown or undetected, could affect the product. Despite our very high manufacturing standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of errors, defects or failures. If we or our vendors are unable to manufacture our products in accordance with necessary quality standards, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. 20 Table of Contents Our Revenues and Operating Results may be Adversely Affected as a Result of our Required Compliance with the Adopted EU Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, as well as other Standards Around the World. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. For example, the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) Directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. Eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. Other countries, such as China, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to RoHS. While we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offerings meet these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with Government Regulations Regarding the Use of “Conflict Minerals” may Result in Additional Expense and Affect our Operations. The SEC has adopted a final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These minerals include tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. We may incur significant costs associated with complying with the new disclosure requirements, including but not limited to costs related to determining which of our products may be subject to the rules and identifying the source of any “conflict minerals” used in those products. Additionally, implementing the new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products. We may also face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify through our compliance procedures the origins for all metals used in our products. Our Products may be Subject to Product Recalls which may Harm our Reputation and Divert our Managerial and Financial Resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order the mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds our products might cause adverse health consequences or death. The FDA may also seize product or prevent further distribution. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects (including labeling defects). In the past we have initiated voluntary recalls of some of our products and we could do so in the future. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers, divert managerial and financial resources and negatively impact our profitability. We are Dependent on our Suppliers and Manufacturers to Meet Existing Regulations. Certain of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject to heavy government regulations, including FDA QSR compliance, in the operation of their facilities, products and manufacturing processes. Any adverse action by the FDA against our suppliers or manufacturers could delay supply or manufacture of component products required to be integrated or sold with our products. Although we attempt to mitigate this risk through inventory held directly or through distributors, and audit our suppliers, there are no assurances we will be successful in identifying issues early enough to allow for corrective action or transition to an alternative supplier, or in locating an alternative supplier or manufacturer to meet product shipment or launch deadlines. As a result, our sales, contractual commitments and financial forecasts may be significantly affected by any such delays. 21 Table of Contents Dependence on Suppliers for Disposable Products and Custom Components may Impact the Production Schedule. The Company obtains certain disposable products and custom components from a limited number of suppliers. If the supplier raises the price or discontinues production, the Company may have to find another qualified supplier to provide the item or re-engineer the item. In the event that it becomes necessary for us to find another supplier, we would first be required to qualify the quality assurance systems and product quality of that alternative supplier. Any operational issues with re-engineering or the alternative qualified supplier may impact the production schedule, therefore delaying revenues, and this may cause the cost of disposables or key components to increase. Failure to Meet Certain Financial Covenants could Decrease our AXP Revenues. Under certain license and escrow agreements, if we fail to meet certain financial covenants, other companies may take possession of the escrowed intellectual property and initiate manufacturing of the applicable device and disposables. If this were to occur, our revenues would be negatively impacted. Failure to Retain or Hire Key Personnel may Adversely Affect our Ability to Sustain or Grow our Business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Our future success partially depends upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. The inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and future financial condition. Most of Our Operations Are Conducted At A Single Location. Any Disruption At Our Facilities Could Delay Revenues Or Increase Our Expenses. Our U.S. device operations are conducted at a single location although we contract the manufacturing of certain devices, disposables and components. Further, through the TotiPotentRX merger, we have research, clinical and manufacturing operations in Emeryville, CA and Gurgaon, India. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, through insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Risks Related to Our Industry Our Business is Heavily Regulated, Resulting in Increased Costs of Operations and Delays in Product Sales. Many of our products require FDA approval or clearance to sell in the U.S. and will require approvals from comparable agencies to sell in foreign countries. These authorizations may limit the U.S. or foreign markets in which our products may be sold. Further, our products must be manufactured under requirements of our quality system for continued CE-Marking so they can continue to be marketed and sold in Europe. These requirements are similar to the QSR of both the FDA and California Department of Public Health. Failure to comply with or incorrectly interpret these quality system requirements and regulations may subject the Company to delays in production while it corrects deficiencies found by the FDA, the State of California, or the Company’s notifying body as a result of any audit of our quality system. If we are found to be out of compliance, we could receive a Warning Letter or an untitled letter from the FDA or even be temporarily shut down in manufacturing and product sales while the non-conformances are rectified. Also, we may have to recall products and temporarily cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. The FDA may also invalidate our PMA or 510(k) if appropriate regulations relative to the PMA or 510(k) product are not met. The notified bodies may elect to not renew CE-Mark certification. Any of these events would negatively impact our revenues and costs of operations. 22 Table of Contents Changes in Governmental Regulations may Reduce Demand for our Products or Increase our Expenses. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. For example, many of our instruments are marketed to the industry for enabling new regenerative therapies. Changes in the FDA’s regulation of the devices and products directed at regenerative medicine, and development process for new therapeutic applications could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. To Sell in International Markets, we will be Subject to Regulation in Foreign Countries. In cooperation with our distribution partners, we intend to market our current and future products both domestically and in many foreign markets. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. In order for us to market our products in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. International sales also may be limited or disrupted by political instability, price controls, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect demand for our products by increasing the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in all of the countries where we intend to market our products, or that we will not incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances, or that we will be able to successfully commercialize current or future products in various foreign markets. Delays in receipt of approvals or clearances to market our products in foreign countries, failure to receive such approvals or clearances or the future loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To Operate In Foreign Jurisdictions, We Are Subject to Regulation by Non-U.S. Authorities. As a result of the merger, we have operations in India, and as such are subject to Indian regulatory agencies. A number of risks are inherent in conducting business and clinical operations overseas. In order for us to operate as a majority owned foreign corporation in India, we are subject to financial regulations imposed by the Reserve Bank of India. This includes the rules specific to the capital funding, repatriation of funds and payment of dividends from and to the foreign subsidiaries and from and to us in the U.S. In order for us to manufacture and/or market our services and products in India, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, and/or export may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. Additionally, In order for us to complete clinical trials, clinical trial services and cell banking in India, and other foreign jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain approvals and licenses which comply with extensive regulations of the appropriate regulatory body. 23 Table of Contents International operations also may be limited or disrupted by political, economic or social instability, price controls, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs as ordered by various governmental agencies. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the cost of production for our products by increasing the price of materials and other inputs for our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. If Our Competitors Develop and Market Products That Are More Effective Than Our Product Candidates Or Obtain Regulatory and Market Approval For Similar Products Before We Do, Our Commercial Opportunity May Be Reduced Or Eliminated. The development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical products which target cardiovascular, orthopedic, chronic dermal wounds and other conditions addressed by our current and future products is competitive, and we will face competition from numerous sources, including major biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources, and development, production and marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, many of these companies have more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and manufacturing of compounds, as well as in obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. As a result, there is a risk that one of the competitors will develop a more effective product for the same indications for which we are developing a product or, alternatively, bring a similar product to market before we can. With regards to the BioArchive and AXP Systems, numerous larger and better-financed medical device manufacturers may choose to enter this market as it develops. Influence by the Government and Insurance Companies may Adversely Impact Sales of our Products. Our business may be materially affected by continuing efforts by government, third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to reduce the costs of healthcare. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing and profit margins of certain healthcare products are subject to government controls. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to place pressure on the pricing of healthcare products. As a result, continuing efforts to contain healthcare costs may result in reduced sales or price reductions for our products. To date, we are not aware of any direct impact on our pricing or product sales due to such efforts by governments to contain healthcare costs, and we do not anticipate any impact in the near future. Product Liability and Uninsured Risks May Adversely Affect the Continuing Operations. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness, or death. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief or by groups seeking to represent a class. We also may be required to recall certain of our products should they become damaged or if they are defective. We are not aware of any material product liability claims against us. However, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. We maintain a product liability policy for $3,000 and a general liability policy that includes product liability coverage of $1,000 per occurrence and $2,000 per year in the aggregate. However, a product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or future financial condition. Risks Related to Operating Results and Financial Markets We Have Incurred Net Losses since our Inception and Losses will Continue. We have not been profitable for a significant period. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, we had a net loss of $8,631 and an accumulated deficit at June 30, 2014, of $122,822. We will continue to incur significant costs as we develop and market our current products and related applications. Although we are executing our business plan to develop, market and launch new products, continuing losses may impair our ability to fully meet our objectives for new product sales. 24 Table of Contents We Will Need to Raise Additional Capital in Furtherance of Our Business Plan. We will need to raise additional capital in furtherance of our business plan, including progression of the CLI and Acute Myocardial Infarction Rapid Stem Cell Therapy (“AMIRST”) clinical trials and development of other new products. Any proposed financing may include shares of common stock, shares of preferred stock, warrants to purchase shares of common stock or preferred stock, debt securities, units consisting of the forgoing securities, equity investments from strategic development partners or some combination of each. Any additional equity financings may be financially dilutive to, and will be dilutive from an ownership perspective to our stockholders. The Preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in Accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) Requires Us to Make Estimates, Judgments, and Assumptions that may Ultimately Prove to be Incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If the underlying estimates are ultimately proven to be incorrect, subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements. Restating consolidated financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. Our Future Financial Results Could be Adversely Impacted by Asset Impairment Charges. We are required to test both goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances could include results of our on-going clinical trials, activities and results of our competitor’s clinical trials, a significant change in the regulatory climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, or other factors. If the fair market value is less than the book value of goodwill, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and estimated product life cycles. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of the business, including such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows. As of June 30, 2014 we have a goodwill balance of $13,254 and a net intangible assets balance of $21,928, out of total assets of $62,888. As a result, the amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If the Price of our Common Stock does not Meet the Requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market Stock Exchange (“NASDAQ”), Our Shares may be Delisted. Our Ability to Publicly or Privately Sell Equity Securities and the Liquidity of Our Common Stock Could be Adversely Affected if We Are Delisted. The listing standards of NASDAQ provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Certain Principal Stockholders Have Significant Influence Over Us. As a result of the merger with TotiPotentRX, Messrs. Harris and Sivilotti, our President and a key employee, respectively, own approximately 23% of our current outstanding common stock. As a result, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the combined company’s assets, and any other significant corporate transaction. Their interests may not always coincide with those of our other stockholders. We Are Integrating a Private Company That Has Not Been Subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002 or the Rules and Regulations of the SEC. Prior to the merger, TotipotentRX was a private company and was not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations of the SEC, or other corporate governance requirements to which public reporting companies may be subject. During the audit of TotipotentRX’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, TotipotentRX’s independent auditors determined that a material weakness existed in its internal control over financial reporting as TotipotentRX did not have adequate personnel and information systems in place to prepare financial statements on a timely basis, including accrual accounting, non-routine data processes and estimation processes. As result of the merger, we are required to implement the appropriate internal control processes and procedures over financial accounting and reporting. However, there is a risk that we may incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses to ensure that TotipotentRX meets these requirements. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, that we will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Implementing the controls and procedures required to comply with the various applicable laws and regulations may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. 25 Table of Contents We do not Pay Cash Dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and may not pay cash dividends in the future. Instead, we intend to apply earnings to the expansion and development of our business. Thus, the liquidity of your investment is dependent upon your ability to sell stock at an acceptable price. The price can go down as well as up and may limit your ability to realize any value from your investment, including the initial purchase price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 