ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in ThermoGenesis’ common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing ThermoGenesis. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair ThermoGenesis’ business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. 16 Table of Contents If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our Proposed Merger with TotipotentRX is Subject to Various Closing Conditions, and the Failure to Complete the Merger with TotipotentRX could Negatively Impact Us. The TotipotentRX Merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including, but not limited to approval by our stockholders and TotipotentRX’s shareholders. No assurance can be given that the TotipotentRX Merger will occur on the terms and timeline currently contemplated or at all. If the proposed TotipotentRX Merger is not completed, the share price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the TotipotentRX Merger will be completed. Further, a failed TotipotentRX Merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community since we have spent a substantial amount of effort, time and money to explain the benefits of the TotipotentRX Merger. Our Future Revenue Growth is Dependent on our New Products being Accepted and our Existing Products being Accepted for New Indications or into New Markets and we are not sure they will be Accepted. The acceptance of our products into new markets or for new indications will depend upon the medical community and third-party payers accepting the products as clinically useful, reliable, accurate, and cost effective compared to existing and future products or procedures. Acceptance will also depend on our ability to adequately train technicians on how to use our existing and future products. Even if our products are released for sale, their use may not be recommended by the medical profession or hospitals unless acceptable reimbursement from healthcare and third party payers is available. Failure of these products to achieve significant market share could have material adverse effects on our long term business, financial condition, and results of operation. Outcomes of Pending or Future Clinical Trials or Evaluations may be Negative and the Regenerative Medicine Market may not Expand, or may not Expand in the Areas Targeted by our Products. The marketing and sales of new products may depend on successful clinical trial or evaluation outcomes in the regenerative medicine areas targeted by our products and the approval of regulators. Clinical trials also represent a significant expenditure of resources. Negative clinical trial results in connection with our products or in the areas targeted by the Company could negatively impact regulatory approval or market acceptance of our products. Unfavorable clinical trials or failure of study results to obtain regulatory approval or target areas with successful clinical trials, could have material adverse effects on our long term business, financial condition, and results of operations. A Significant Portion of our Revenue is Derived from Customers in Foreign Countries. We may Lose Revenues, Market Share, and Profits due to Exchange Rate Fluctuations, Political and Economic Changes Related to our Foreign Business. In the year ended June 30, 2013, sales to customers in foreign countries comprised approximately 55% of our revenues. This compares to 43% in fiscal 2012. Our foreign business is subject to economic, political and regulatory uncertainties and risks that are unique to each area of the world. Fluctuations in exchange rates may also affect the prices that our foreign customers are willing to pay, and may put us at a price disadvantage compared to other competitors. Potentially volatile shifts in exchange rates may negatively affect our financial position and results. The Loss of a Significant Distributor or End User Customer may Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Revenues from four significant distributors comprised 56% of our revenues for the year ended June 30, 2013 and a significant portion of our largest distributor’s revenue came from one customer. The loss of a large end user customer or distributor may decrease our revenues. 17 Table of Contents We are Heavily Reliant on a Single Distributor to Market and Sell our MXP and Res-Q Systems. We have limited control over our distributor’s sales and marketing efforts. Although we have added distributors in other territories and other indications, we must manage our distribution network effectively to gain additional revenue and gross profit. Since the Res-Q products are a significant portion of our projected revenue growth, a delay or failure by our distributors to successfully market these products may decrease our future revenues and competitive advantage. Our Inability to Successfully Identify and Complete Acquisitions or Successfully Integrate any New Products could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business. Our current business strategy includes the acquisition of other companies, technologies and products that position us to move into greater markets and larger revenue streams. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including antitrust, approvals. We would seek to acquire based on time and risks associated with moving towards our strategic markets, as opposed to the risks and costs associated with trying to organically grow or develop those components. We may not be able to identify and successfully complete transactions. Any acquisitions we may complete may be made at a substantial premium over the fair value of the net identifiable assets. Further, we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business. We may be Exposed to Liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any Determination that we Violated these Laws could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Adverse Results of Legal Proceedings could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of their merits, legal proceedings may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on a portion of our business operations or a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations Our Inability to Protect our Patents, Trademarks, Trade Secrets and other Proprietary Rights could Adversely Impact our Competitive Position. We believe that our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and proprietary rights. We use various methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees, vendors, and customers, to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how for our products. We currently hold patents for products, and have patents pending in certain countries for additional products that we market or intend to market. However, our actions to establish and protect our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. If our products are challenged as infringing upon patents of other parties, we may be required to modify the design of the product, obtain a license, or litigate the issues, all of which may have an adverse business effect on us. 18 Table of Contents We may be Subject to Claims that our Products or Processes Infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of Others, which may Cause us to Pay Unexpected Litigation Costs or Damages, Modify our Products or Processes or Prevent us from Selling our Products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, third parties may nevertheless claim that our processes and products infringe their intellectual property and other rights. Our strategies of capitalizing on growing international demand as well as developing new innovative products across multiple business lines present similar infringement claim risks both internationally and in the United States as we expand the scope of our product offerings and markets. We compete with other companies for contracts in some small or specialized industries, which increases the risk that the other companies will develop overlapping technologies leading to an increased possibility that infringement claims will arise. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. In order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. We may not be able to Protect our Intellectual Property in Countries Outside the United States. Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revisions. The laws of some countries do not protect our patent and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. This is particularly relevant to us as a significant amount of our current and projected future sales are outside of the United States. Third parties may attempt to oppose the issuance of patents to us in foreign countries by initiating opposition proceedings. Opposition proceedings against any of our patent filings in a foreign country could have an adverse effect on our corresponding patents that are issued or pending in the United States. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our patents or our competitors’ patents that have been issued in countries other than the U.S. This could result in substantial costs, divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any Failure to Achieve and Maintain the High Design and Manufacturing Standards that our Products Require may Seriously Harm our Business. Our products require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel as well as our vendors. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, design defects or component failures could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Additionally, the large amount of AXP disposable inventory certain distributors and end-users maintain may delay the identification of a manufacturing error and expand the financial impact. A manufacturing error or defect, or previously undetected design defect, or uncorrected impurity or variation in a raw material component, either unknown or undetected, could affect the product. Despite our very high manufacturing standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of errors, defects or failures. If we or our vendors are unable to manufacture our products in accordance with necessary quality standards, our business and results of operations may be negatively affected. Our Revenues and Operating Results may be Adversely Affected as a Result of our Required Compliance with the Adopted European Union Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, as well as other Standards Around the World. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of which have been or are currently used in our products or processes. For example, the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) Directive now requires that certain substances, which may be found in certain products we have manufactured in the past, be removed from all electronics components. Eliminating such substances from our manufacturing processes requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances for our products, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. Other countries, such as China, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to RoHS. While we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product offerings meet these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally, if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents Compliance with Government Regulations Regarding the Use of “Conflict Minerals” may Result in Additional Expense and Affect our Operations. The SEC recently adopted a final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These minerals include tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The new requirements will require due diligence efforts on our part in fiscal 2014 and thereafter, and we will also be required to comply with the initial disclosure requirements that become effective in May 2014. We may incur significant costs associated with complying with the new disclosure requirements, including but not limited to costs related to determining which of our products may be subject to the new rules and source of any “conflict minerals” used in those products. Additionally, implementing the new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the manufacture of our products. We may also face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify through our compliance procedures the origins for all metals used in our products. Our Products may be Subject to Product Recalls which may Harm our Reputation and Divert our Managerial and Financial Resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order the mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds our products might cause adverse health consequences or death. The FDA may also seize product or prevent further distribution. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects (including labeling defects). In the past we have initiated voluntary recalls of some of our products and we could do so in the future. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers, divert managerial and financial resources and negatively impact our profitability. We are Dependent on our Suppliers and Manufacturers to Meet Existing Regulations. Certain of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject to heavy government regulations, including FDA QSR compliance, in the operation of their facilities, products and manufacturing processes. Any adverse action by the FDA against our suppliers or manufacturers could delay supply or manufacture of component products required to be integrated or sold with our products. There are no assurances we will be successful in locating an alternative supplier or manufacturer to meet product shipment or launch deadlines. As a result, our sales, contractual commitments and financial forecasts may be significantly affected by any such delays. Dependence on Suppliers for Disposable Products and Custom Components may Impact the Production Schedule. The Company obtains certain disposable products and custom components from a limited number of suppliers. If the supplier raises the price or discontinues production, the Company may have to find another qualified supplier to provide the item or re-engineer the item. In the event that it becomes necessary for us to find another supplier, we would first be required to qualify the quality assurance systems and product quality of that alternative supplier. Any operational issues with re-engineering or the alternative qualified supplier may impact the production schedule, therefore delaying revenues, and this may cause the cost of disposables or key components to increase. 20 Table of Contents Failure to Meet Certain Financial Covenants could Decrease our AXP Revenues. Under certain license and escrow agreements, if we fail to meet certain financial covenants, other companies may take possession of the escrowed intellectual property and initiate manufacturing of the applicable device and disposables. If this were to occur, our revenues would be negatively impacted. Failure to Retain or Hire Key Personnel may Adversely Affect our Ability to Sustain or Grow our Business. Our ability to operate successfully and manage our potential future growth depends significantly upon retaining key research, technical, clinical, regulatory, sales, marketing and managerial personnel. Our future success partially depends upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. The inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and future financial condition. All of our Operations are Conducted at a Single Location. Any Disruption at our Facility could Delay Revenues or Increase our Expenses. All of our operations are conducted at a single location although we contract the manufacturing of certain devices, disposables and components. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, through insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Risks Related to Our Industry Our Business is Heavily Regulated, Resulting in Increased Costs of Operations and Delays in Product Sales. Many of our products require FDA approval or clearance to sell in the U.S. and will require approvals from comparable agencies to sell in foreign countries. These authorizations may limit the U.S. or foreign markets in which our products may be sold. Further, our products must be manufactured under requirements of our quality system for continued CE-Marking so they can continue to be marketed and sold in Europe. These requirements are similar to the QSR of both the FDA and California Department of Public Health. Failure to comply with or inappropriately interpret these quality system requirements and regulations may subject the Company to delays in production while it corrects deficiencies found by the FDA, the State of California, or the Company’s notifying body as a result of any audit of our quality system. If we are found to be out of compliance, we could receive a Warning Letter or an untitled letter from the FDA or even be temporarily shut down in manufacturing and product sales while the non-conformances are rectified. Also, we may have to recall products and temporarily cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. The FDA may also invalidate our PMA or 510(k) if appropriate regulations relative to the PMA or 510(k) product are not met. The notified bodies may elect to not renew CE-Mark certification. Any of these events would negatively impact our revenues and costs of operations. 21 Table of Contents Changes in Governmental Regulations may Reduce Demand for our Products or Increase our Expenses. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. For example, many of our instruments are marketed to the industry for enabling new regenerative therapies. Changes in the U.S. FDA’s regulation of the devices and products directed at regenerative medicine, and development process for new therapeutic applications could have an adverse effect on the demand for these products. To Sell in International Markets, we will be Subject to Regulation in Foreign Countries. In cooperation with our distribution partners, we intend to market our current and future products both domestically and in many foreign markets. A number of risks are inherent in international transactions. In order for us to market our products in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, we need to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or clearances and must comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearances to market, may differ from the FDA regulatory scheme. International sales also may be limited or disrupted by political instability, price controls, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs. Additionally, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect demand for our products by increasing the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals or clearances in all of the countries where we intend to market our products, or that we will not incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances, or that we will be able to successfully commercialize current or future products in various foreign markets. Delays in receipt of approvals or clearances to market our products in foreign countries, failure to receive such approvals or clearances or the future loss of previously received approvals or clearances could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition in our Industry is Intense and will likely Involve Companies with Greater Resources than We Have. We hope to develop a competitive advantage in the medical applications of our products, but there are many competitors that are substantially larger and possess greater financial resources and more personnel than we do. Our current principal market is cord blood banks, and with regards to the BioArchive and AXP Systems, numerous larger and better-financed medical device manufacturers may choose to enter this market as it develops. Influence by the Government and Insurance Companies may Adversely Impact Sales of our Products. Our business may be materially affected by continuing efforts by government, third party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to reduce the costs of healthcare. For example, in certain foreign markets the pricing and profit margins of certain healthcare products are subject to government controls. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to place pressure on the pricing of healthcare products. As a result, continuing efforts to contain healthcare costs may result in reduced sales or price reductions for our products. To date, we are not aware of any direct impact on our pricing or product sales due to such efforts by governments to contain healthcare costs, and we do not anticipate any impact in the near future. 22 Table of Contents Product Liability and Uninsured Risks May Adversely Affect the Continuing Operations. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. We may be liable if any of our products cause injury, illness, or death. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief or by groups seeking to represent a class. We also may be required to recall certain of our products should they become damaged or if they are defective. We are not aware of any material product liability claims against us. However, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. We maintain a product liability policy for $3,000,000 and a general liability policy that includes product liability coverage of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per year in the aggregate. However, a product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or future financial condition. Risks Related to Operating Results and Financial Markets We Have Incurred Net Losses since our Inception and Losses may Continue. Except for net income of $11,000 for fiscal 1994, we have not been profitable since our inception. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, we had a net loss of $3,086,000 and an accumulated deficit at June 30, 2013, of $114,191,000. We will continue to incur significant costs as we develop and market our current products and related applications. Although we are executing our business plan to develop, market and launch new products, continuing losses may impair our ability to fully meet our objectives for new product sales. ThermoGenesis Intends to Raise Additional Capital to Fund its Operations and in Furtherance of its Business Plan. We intend to raise additional capital to expand our offerings in regenerative medicine, in anticipation of our proposed merger with TotipotentRX and for working capital. The proposed financing may include shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock or a combination of both. Any additional equity financing will be dilutive from an ownership perspective to our existing stockholders. The Continuing Economic Downturn in the U.S. and World Financial and Securities Markets could have a Material Adverse Effect on our Customers’ Business and Affect our Operations and Revenues. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we operate. The current economic conditions including the lingering effects of the global recession could adversely impact our business in fiscal year 2014 and beyond, resulting in: · reduced demand for some of our products, · increased rate of order cancellations or delays, · increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, and · increased pressure on the prices for our products and services. Demand for most of our products depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding policies. Our customers include stem cell banks (both private and non-profit), laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. Many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. These policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Further, the current economic crisis heightens the risk that our customers may lack the funding or credit facilities that they may have previously used for acquiring our products. Such credit or funding restrictions could delay or lower our future revenues. The Preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in Accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) Requires Us to Make Estimates, Judgments, and Assumptions that may Ultimately Prove to be Incorrect. The accounting estimates and judgments that management must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. If the underlying estimates are ultimately proven to be incorrect, subsequent adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period or periods in which the change is identified. Additionally, subsequent adjustments could require us to restate our consolidated financial statements. Restating consolidated financial statements could result in a material decline in the price of our stock. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Trading Prices for our Common Stock have been, and may Continue to be, Volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to be volatile in the future. Trading price fluctuations can be caused by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, among other things: · Variations in operating results, · Regulatory actions, such as product recalls, · Governmental regulatory acts, · Biological or medical discoveries, · Clinical trial results, · Changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts, and · Market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. In the last few years, the stock market experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations due to the unprecedented turmoil and upheaval of the credit markets and the financial services industry, which have particularly affected the market prices for emerging biotechnology and medical device companies, and has adversely affected the market price of our common stock. If the Price of our Common Stock does not Meet the Requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market Stock Exchange (“NASDAQ”), Our Shares may be Delisted. Our Ability to Publicly or Privately Sell Equity Securities and the Liquidity of Our Common Stock Could be Adversely Affected if We Are Delisted. The listing standards of NASDAQ provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We do not Pay Cash Dividends. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and may not pay cash dividends in the future. Instead, we intend to apply earnings to the expansion and development of our business. Thus, the liquidity of your investment is dependent upon your ability to sell stock at an acceptable price. The price can go down as well as up and may limit your ability to realize any value from your investment, including the initial purchase price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents 