Item 1A. Risk Factors The factors described below represent our principal risks. Except as otherwise indicated, these factors may or may not occur and we are not in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other factors may exist that we do not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate. Risks Relating to Our Business Dentists and patients may be slow to adopt laser technologies, which could limit the market acceptance of our products. Our dental laser systems represent relatively new technologies in the dental market. Currently, only a small percentage of dentists use lasers to perform dental procedures. Our future success will depend on our ability to increase demand for our products by demonstrating the potential performance advantages of our laser systems over traditional methods of treatment and over competitive laser systems to a broad spectrum of dentists and patients. Historically, we have experienced long sales cycles because dentists have been, and may continue to be, slow to adopt new technologies on a widespread basis. As a result, we generally are required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to educate customers about the benefits of our products in comparison to competing products and technologies before completing a sale, if any. Factors that may inhibit adoption of laser technologies by dentists include cost and concerns about the safety, efficacy and reliability of lasers. The list selling price of our Waterlase MD laser system is in excess of $75,000, which is substantially more than the cost of competing non-laser technologies. In order invest in a Waterlase MD laser system, a dentist generally would need to invest time to understand the technology, the benefits of such technology with respect to clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction, and the return on investment of the product. Absent an immediate competitive motivation, a dentist may not feel compelled to invest the time required to learn about the potential benefits of using a laser system. We also believe that clinical evidence supporting the safety and efficiency of our products, as well as recommendations and support of our laser systems by influential dental practitioners, are important for market acceptance and adoption. In addition, economic pressure, caused for example by an economic slowdown, changes in healthcare reimbursement or by competitive factors in a specific market, may make dentists reluctant to purchase substantial capital equipment or invest in new technologies. Patient acceptance will depend on the recommendations of dentists and specialists, as well as other factors, including without limitation, the relative effectiveness, safety, reliability and comfort of our systems as compared to other instruments and methods for performing dental procedures. The failure of dental lasers to achieve broad market acceptance would limit sales of our products and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenue and operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Historically, we have experienced fluctuations in revenue from quarter to quarter due to seasonality. Revenue in the first quarter typically is lower than average and revenue in the fourth quarter typically is stronger than average due to the buying patterns of dental professionals. In addition, revenue in the third quarter may be affected by vacation patterns which can cause revenue to be flat or lower than in the second quarter of the year. Notwithstanding this pattern, in 2005, our net revenue has declined each quarter. If our quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, analysts or our previously stated 18 Table of Contents financial guidance, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include, among others, the following: • variation in demand for our products, including seasonality; • our ability to research, develop, market and sell new products and product enhancements in a timely manner; • our ability to control costs; • our ability to control quality issues with our products; • the size, timing, rescheduling or cancellation of orders from distributors; • the introduction of new products by competitors; • the length of and fluctuations in sales cycles; • the availability and reliability of components used to manufacture our products; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our suppliers and competitors, as well as increased price competition in general; • the mix of our domestic and international sales and the risks and uncertainties associated with international business; • costs associated with any future acquisitions of technologies and businesses; • limitations on our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards under the provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 382 and similar state laws; • developments concerning the protection of our intellectual property rights; • catastrophic events such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, which can affect our ability to advertise, sell and distribute our products, including through national conferences held in regions in which these disasters strike; and • global economic, political and social events, including international conflicts and acts of terrorism. The expenses we incur are based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future net revenue. In particular, we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of our products. Since many of our costs are fixed in the short term, we may be unable to reduce expenses quickly enough to avoid losses if we experience a decrease in net revenue. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. We may have difficulty achieving profitability and may experience additional losses. We have an accumulated deficit of $68.5 million at December 31, 2005. We recorded a net loss of $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, due partly to our professional fees related to the 2004 audit and restated financial statements and our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, $2.0 million related to the purchase of a license to use certain patent rights from SurgiLight, including the transaction costs and increased expenses as a result of quality issues with our products that we are addressing. We also experienced a loss in fiscal 2004 of $23.2 million, of which $14.4 million was attributable to the recording of a valuation allowance associated with our deferred tax assets. In order to achieve profitability, we must control our costs and increase net revenue through new sales. Failure to increase our net revenue and decrease our costs could cause our stock price to decline. Any failure to significantly expand sales of our products will negatively impact our business. We currently handle a majority of the marketing, distribution and sales of our products. In order to achieve our business objectives, we intend to significantly expand our marketing and sales efforts on a domestic and 19 Table of Contents international basis. We face significant challenges and risks in expanding, training, managing and retaining our sales and marketing teams, including managing geographically dispersed operations. In addition, we rely on independent distributors to market and sell our products in a number of countries outside of the United States. These distributors may not commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products, and they may terminate their relationships with us at any time with limited notice. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities domestically and internationally, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our products, which could harm our business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Components used in our products are complex in design and any defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations, reducing our revenue and increasing our cost. In manufacturing our products, we depend upon third parties for the supply of various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to design and produce. If we fail adequately to design or if our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, or we, use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. We have experienced such non-compliance with manufacturing specifications in the past and may continue to experience such in the future, which could lead to higher costs of revenue and thus reduced gross margins. Our products may contain defects that cannot be repaired easily and inexpensively, and we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future some or all of the following: • loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; • damage to our brand reputation; • increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; • inability to attract new customers; • diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and • legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially harm our business. Our distributors may cancel, reduce or delay orders of our products, any of which could reduce our revenue. We employ direct sales representatives in certain European countries; however, we rely on independent distributors for a substantial portion of our sales outside of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2004, revenue from distributors accounted for approximately 13% of our total sales, and no distributor accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, revenue from distributors accounted for approximately 17% of our total sales, and no distributor accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenue will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining relationships with our distributors and upon the efforts of these third parties. Our distributors have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources they apply to the sale of our products. Our distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations and, regardless of the resources they commit, they may not be successful. Additionally, most of our distributor agreements can be terminated with limited notice, and we may not be able to replace any terminating distributors in a timely manner or on terms agreeable to us, if at all. If we are unable to maintain our distribution network, if our distribution network is not successful in marketing and selling our products, if we experience a significant reduction in, cancellation or change in the size and timing of orders from our distributors, or if we experience delays in collecting accounts receivable from our distributors, our revenues could decline significantly. 20 Table of Contents We must continue to procure materials and components on commercially reasonable terms and on a timely basis to manufacture our products profitably. We have some single-source suppliers. We have no written supply contracts with our key suppliers; instead, we purchase certain materials and components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers using purchase orders. Our business depends in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of materials and components in acceptable quality and quantities from our suppliers. Certain components of our products, particularly specialized components used in our lasers, are currently available only from a single source or limited sources. For example, the crystal, fiber and hand pieces used in our Waterlase systems are each supplied by a separate single supplier and from time to time we have experienced quality deficiencies in these materials. In particular, our gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2005 were adversely impacted by higher manufacturing costs as a result of quality issues in parts supplied by third parties. Our reliance on these outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for the various components in our laser systems; • switching components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a 510(k) application, which could significantly delay production; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components for us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive procedures. We may not be able to compete successfully, which will cause our revenue and market share to decline. We compete with a number of domestic and foreign companies that market traditional dental products, such as dental drills, as well as companies that market laser technologies in the dental and medical markets, including Hoya ConBio, a subsidiary of Hoya Photonics, OpusDent Ltd., a subsidiary of Lumenis, KaVo, Deka Dental Corporation, Ivoclar Vivadent AG, and Fotona d.d. If we do not compete successfully, our revenue and market share may decline. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we have, which may allow them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and to devote greater resources to the acquisition or development and introduction of enhanced products than we can. The ability of our competitors to devote greater financial resources to product development requires us to work harder to distinguish our products through improving our product performance and pricing, protecting our intellectual property, continuously improving our customer support, accurately timing the introduction of new products and developing sustainable distribution channels worldwide. In addition, we expect the rapid technological changes occurring in the healthcare industry to lead to the entry of new competitors, particularly if dental and medical lasers gain increasing market acceptance. We must be able to anticipate technological changes and introduce enhanced products on a timely basis in order to grow and remain competitive. New competitors or technological changes in laser products and methods could cause commoditization of our products, require price discounting or otherwise adversely affect our gross margins and our financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Rapidly changing standards and competing technologies could harm demand for our products or result in significant additional costs. The markets in which our products compete are subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in the regulatory environment, and frequent introductions of new devices and evolving dental and surgical techniques. Competing products may emerge which could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete. The process of developing new medical devices is inherently complex and requires regulatory approvals or clearances that can be expensive, time consuming and uncertain. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, identify new and innovative applications of our technology, or be financially or otherwise capable of completing the research and development required to bring new products to market in a timely manner. An inability to expand our product offerings or the application of our technology could limit our growth. In addition, we may incur higher manufacturing costs if manufacturing processes or standards change, and we may need to replace, modify, design or build and install equipment, all of which would require additional capital expenditures. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to develop and market our products successfully could be harmed. We are heavily dependent on our current executive officers and management. The loss of any key employee or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell our products and harm our reputation. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of Robert E. Grant, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Jeffrey W. Jones, our Chief Technology Officer; Richard L. Harrison, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Keith G. Bateman, our Executive Vice President of Marketing; and James M. Haefner, our Executive Vice President of Global Sales. We have employment agreements with each of these individuals that provide either us or them with the ability to terminate their employment at will, subject to certain severance rights; however, their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, engineering, sales and marketing and other highly skilled technical personnel. Any problems that we experience with our manufacturing operations may harm our business. In order to grow our business, we must expand our manufacturing capabilities to produce the systems and accessories necessary to meet any demand we may experience. We may encounter difficulties in increasing production of our products, including problems involving production capacity and yields, quality control and assurance, component supply and shortages of qualified personnel. In addition, before we can begin commercial manufacture of our products, we must obtain regulatory approval of our manufacturing facilities, processes and quality systems, and the manufacture of our laser systems must comply with cGMP regulations. The cGMP regulations govern facility compliance, quality control and documentation policies and procedures. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are continuously subject to periodic inspections by the FDA, as well as various state agencies and foreign regulatory agencies. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manufacture our products in compliance with the FDA’s Quality System regulations and other regulatory requirements. We recently have experienced quality issues with components of our products supplied by third parties. If we do not succeed in manufacturing our products on a timely basis and with acceptable manufacturing costs while at the same time maintaining good quality control and complying with applicable regulatory requirements, our business could be harmed. Changes in government regulation or the inability to obtain or maintain necessary government approvals could harm our business. Our products are subject to extensive government regulation, both in the United States and in other countries. To clinically test, manufacture and market products for human use, we must comply with regulations and safety standards set by the FDA and comparable state and foreign agencies. Regulations adopted by the FDA 22 Table of Contents are wide ranging and govern, among other things, product design, development, manufacture and testing, labeling, storage, advertising and sales. Generally, products must meet regulatory standards as safe and effective for their intended use before being marketed for human applications. The clearance process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA can result in an enforcement action which may include a variety of sanctions, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production and criminal prosecution. The failure to receive or maintain requisite approvals for the use of our products or processes, or significant delays in obtaining such approvals, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services necessary for us to remain competitive. To date, we have been successful in obtaining 501(k) clearances from the FDA for our products. However, should we develop new products and applications or make any significant modifications to our existing products or labeling, we will need to obtain additional regulatory clearances or approvals necessary to market such products. Any modification that could significantly affect a product’s safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a change in its intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance, or could require a PMA application. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s determination, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA is obtained. If 501(k) clearance is denied and a pre-market approval application is required, we could be required to submit substantially more data, may be required to conduct human clinical testing and would very likely be subject to a significantly longer review period. Products sold in international markets are also subject to the regulatory requirements of each respective country. The regulations of the European Union require that a device have a CE Mark, indicating conformance with European Union laws and regulations before it can be sold in that market. The regulatory international review process varies from country to country. We rely on our distributors and sales representatives in the foreign countries in which we market our products to comply with the regulatory laws of such countries. Failure to comply with the laws of such country could have a material adverse effect on our operations and, at the very least, could prevent us from continuing to sell products in such countries. We may not have effective internal controls if we fail to remedy any deficiencies we may identify in our system of internal controls. In addition, unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements could impose significant costs and burdens on us, which could increase our operating expenses and harm our financial condition. Regulatory proceedings relating to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements could divert management’s attention and resources. We restated our previously issued financial statements in September of 2003 to reflect a change in the timing of revenue recognition for the fiscal years 2000 through 2002 and the quarters ended March 31, 2002 through March 31, 2003. In addition, in July 2005, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the 2002 and 2003 fiscal years, the four quarters of 2003 and the first three fiscal quarters of 2004 due to a number of factors. We received informal requests from the SEC voluntarily to provide information relating to the September 2003 restatement of our consolidated financial statements. We provided information to the SEC and if we receive any additional requests for information, we intend to continue to do so. In accordance with its normal practice, the SEC has not advised us when its inquiry might be concluded. If the SEC elects to request additional information from us or commences further proceedings, including as a result of our recent restatement, responding to such requests or proceedings could divert management’s attention and resources. Additionally, any negative developments arising from such requests or proceedings could harm our business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. 23 Table of Contents We may have difficulty managing any growth that we might experience. If we experience growth in our operations, our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls may need to be expanded, which will place significant demands on our management, distract management from our business plan and increase expenses. Our success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. These challenges may include, among others: • maintaining our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the revenue we generate; • managing manufacturing expansion projects; • implementing and improving our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; and • managing operations in multiple locations and multiple time zones. In addition, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer insurance and, from time to time, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur significantly higher costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If we fail to secure or protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and technology, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the intellectual property of others. We rely on patents to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. We currently possess a number of issued patents and patent applications with respect to our products and technology; however, we cannot assure that any additional patents will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will be effective in helping us address our competition or that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged. It is also possible that our competitors may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design products that circumvent our patents. Additionally, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitive position and financial condition may be harmed. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. We face substantial uncertainty regarding the impact that other parties’ intellectual property positions will have on the markets for dental and other medical lasers. The medical technology industry has in the past been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. Some of these claims may lead to litigation. We may not prevail in any future intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, may be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling or redesign products that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. Additionally, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the 24 Table of Contents intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and it is possible that we may not be able to obtain a license on acceptable terms, or at all. Any of the foregoing adverse events could seriously harm our business. In February 2005, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against Refocus Group, Inc. in order to obtain declaratory relief that certain of our planned activities in the field of presbyopia will not infringe the claims of a patent held by Refocus and/or that the Refocus claims are invalid. These claims were dismissed by the court in July 2005 without prejudice on the basis that we do not have a product that has been commercialized and, therefore, Refocus’ alleged infringement claims are not ripe. Once we have a commercial product in the field of presbyopia, we intend to renew our claim against Refocus. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in a lawsuit against Refocus. If we are not successful in such a lawsuit, we may not be able to market our presbyopia product or we may have to license certain patents from Refocus. We have significant international sales and are subject to risks associated with operating in international markets. International sales comprise a significant portion of our net revenue and we intend to continue to pursue and expand our international business activities. For the fiscal year 2005, international sales accounted for approximately 30% of our net revenue, as compared to approximately 25% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2004 and approximately 23% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2003. Political and economic conditions outside the United States could make it difficult for us to increase our international revenue or to operate abroad. International operations, including our operations in Germany, are subject to many inherent risks, including among others: • adverse changes in tariffs and trade restrictions; • political, social and economic instability and increased security concerns; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • longer collection periods and difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities; • exposure to different legal standards; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels; • reduced protection for our intellectual property in some countries; • difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws; • the imposition of governmental controls; • unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences and the complexities of foreign value-added tax systems. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue, and we intend to expand our international operations further. Our direct net revenue in Europe is denominated principally in Euros, while our net revenue in other international markets is in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the relative value of the dollar against the Euro would lead to less income from sales denominated in Euros, unless we increase prices, which may not be possible due to competitive conditions in Europe. We could experience losses from European transactions if the relative value of the dollar were to increase in the future. We do not currently engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations, although we may consider doing so in the future. Net revenue generated from products manufactured at our German facility accounted for 4% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2005, 13% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2004 and 12% of our net revenue in fiscal year 25 Table of Contents 2003. Expenses relating to our manufacturing operations in Germany are paid in Euros; therefore, an increase in the value of the Euro relative to the dollar would increase the expenses associated with our German manufacturing operations and reduce our earnings. In addition, we may experience difficulties associated with managing our operations remotely and complying with German regulatory and legal requirements for maintaining our manufacturing operations in that country. Any of these factors may adversely affect our future international revenue and manufacturing operations and, consequently, negatively impact our business and operating results. We recently decided to eliminate our manufacturing operations at our facility in Germany. However, we have retained our ability to manufacture products there and could opt to do so in the future. Our products are subject to recall even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. Any recall involving our Waterlase systems could harm the reputation of the product and our company and would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results, in part because the Waterlase systems compose such an important part of our portfolio of products. We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with any future acquisition. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including, among others: • problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; • problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • increased legal and accounting costs as a result of the rules and regulations related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders would be diluted. If our customers cannot obtain third party reimbursement for their use of our products, they may be less inclined to purchase our products. Our products are generally purchased by dental or medical professionals who have various billing practices and patient mixes. Such practices range from primarily private pay to those who rely heavily on third party 26 Table of Contents payors, such as private insurance or government programs. In the United States, third party payors review and frequently challenge the prices charged for medical services. In many foreign countries, the prices for dental services are predetermined through government regulation. Payors may deny coverage and reimbursement if they determine that the procedure was not medically necessary, such as a cosmetic procedure, or that the device used in the procedure was investigational. We believe that most of the procedures being performed with our current products generally are reimbursable, with the exception of cosmetic applications, such as tooth whitening. For the portion of dentists who rely heavily on third party reimbursement, the inability to obtain reimbursement for services using our products could deter them from purchasing or using our products. We cannot predict the effect of future healthcare reforms or changes in financing for health and dental plans. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on the ability of a dental or medical professional to generate a return on investment using our current or future products. Such changes could act as disincentives for capital investments by dental and medical professionals and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We are party to securities and derivative litigation that distracts our management, is expensive to conduct and seeks a damage award against us. We and certain of our current and former officers have been named as defendants in several putative shareholder class action lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaints purport to seek unspecified damages on behalf of an alleged class of persons who purchased our common stock between October 29, 2003 and July 16, 2004. The complaints allege that we and our officers violated federal securities laws by failing to disclose material information about the demand for our products and the fact that we would not achieve the alleged forecasted growth. The claimed misrepresentations include certain statements in our press releases and the registration statement we filed in connection with our public offering of stock which closed in March 2004. In January 2006, our motion to dismiss the second amended consolidated class action complaint was granted and the action was dismissed, with leave to further amend, by the order of the Honorable David O. Carter, United States District Judge for the Central District of California. On March 10, 2006 the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint. The third amended complaint makes the same allegations regarding violations of the federal securities laws but is limited to an alleged class of investors who purchased or otherwise acquired our common stock pursuant to or traceable to the public offering of our stock that closed in March 2004. In addition, three stockholders have filed derivative actions in the state court in California seeking recovery on behalf of BIOLASE, alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duties by those individual defendants and by the members of our Board of Directors. The class action lawsuit and the derivative actions are still in the pretrial stage and no discovery has been conducted by any of the parties. However, based on the facts presently known, our management believes we have meritorious defenses to these actions and intends to vigorously defend them. As of December 31, 2005, no amounts have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements for these matters since management believes that it is not probable we have incurred a loss contingency. Defending ourselves and our officers and directors in these lawsuits is expensive and time-consuming and detracts management’s attention from the operation of our business. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending against these claims. If we are unsuccessful, we may be subject to fines, penalties and sanctions that could negatively impact our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. Material increases in interest rates may harm our sales. We currently sell our products primarily to dentists in general practice. These dentists often purchase our products with funds they secure through various financing arrangements with third party financial institutions, including credit facilities and short-term loans. If interest rates continue to increase, these financing arrangements will be more expensive to our dental customers, which would effectively increase the overall cost of owning our products for our customers and, thereby, may decrease demand for our products. Any reduction in the sales of our products would cause our business to suffer. 27 Table of Contents Product liability claims against us could be costly and could harm our reputation. The sale of dental and medical devices involves the inherent risk of product liability claims against us. We currently maintain product liability insurance on a per occurrence basis with a limit of $12.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for all occurrences. The insurance is subject to various standard coverage exclusions, including damage to the product itself, losses from recall of our product and losses covered by other forms of insurance such as workers compensation. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully defend any claims against us, nor can we be certain that our insurance will cover all liabilities resulting from such claims. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such insurance in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, any product liability claim brought against us could result in harm to our reputation, a decreased demand for our products, costs related to litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future, and may cause our business to suffer. Our operations are consolidated primarily in one facility. A disaster at this facility is possible and could result in a prolonged interruption of our business. Substantially all of our administrative operations and our manufacturing operations are located at our facilities in San Clemente, California, which is near known earthquake fault zones. We expect to move to a new location in Irvine, California, an area which is also in or near a known earthquake fault zone. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities including insurance, disaster recovery planning and off-site backup of computer data; however, a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could seriously harm our business, adversely affect our operations and damage our reputation with customers. We maintain commercial insurance that includes business interruption coverage; however the insurance we maintain against such natural disasters and business interruption may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership. In 2003, we completed an analysis to determine the applicability of the annual limitations imposed by Section 382 caused by previous changes in our stock ownership and determined that such limitations should not be significant. Based on our analysis, we believe that, as of December 31, 2005, approximately $57.9 million of net operating loss carryforwards were available to us for federal income tax purposes. Of this amount, approximately $54.4 million is available to offset federal taxable income or the taxable income generated in 2006 or in future years, if any. Additional net operating loss carryforwards will become available at the rate of approximately $1.0 million per year for the years 2006 through 2009. However, any ownership changes qualifying under Section 382 including changes resulting from or affected by our public offering or our stock repurchase plan may adversely affect our ability to use our remaining net operating loss carryforwards. If we lose our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards, any income we generate will be subject to tax earlier than it would be if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, resulting in lower profits. Our business is capital intensive and the failure to obtain capital could require that we curtail capital expenditures. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in the development of our products, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities and the expansion of our operating and management infrastructure as we increase sales domestically and internationally. We expect that substantial capital will be required to expand our operations and fund working capital for anticipated growth. We may need to raise additional funds through further debt or equity financings, which may affect the percentage ownership of existing holders of common stock and which may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of 28 Table of Contents our common stock or may be issued at a discount to the market price of our common stock thereby resulting in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by raising debt, we may be subject to debt covenants which could place limitations on our operations. We may not be able to raise additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all, or we may use capital more rapidly than anticipated. If we cannot raise the required capital when needed, we may not be able to satisfy the demands of existing and prospective customers and may lose revenue and market share. The following factors among others could affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all: • our results of operations; • general economic conditions and conditions in the electronics industry; • the perception of our business in the capital markets; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • our business prospects; and • interest rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net revenue, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, reduced manufacturing efficiencies or other harm to our business. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that our stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the price of our stock. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company and may affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, and the existence of our stockholder rights plan, could make it difficult for any party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders, and could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In December 1998, we adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which one preferred stock purchase right was distributed to our stockholders for each share of our common stock held. In connection with the stockholder rights plan, the Board of Directors has designated 500,000 shares of Series B Junior Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock. If any party acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common stock while the stockholder rights plan remains in place (i.e., if such party does not negotiate with the Board of Directors, which has the power to redeem the rights and terminate the plan), the holders of these rights (other than the party acquiring the 15% position) will be able to purchase shares of our common stock (or other securities or assets) at a discounted price, causing substantial dilution to the party acquiring the 15% position. Following the acquisition of 15% or more of our stock by any person (without a redemption of the rights or a termination of the stockholder rights plan by the Board of Directors), if we are acquired by or merged with any other entity, holders of these rights (other than the party acquiring the 15% position) will also be able to purchase shares of common stock of the acquiring or surviving entity if the stockholder rights plan continues to remain in place. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, the Board of Directors has the power to authorize the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock that is currently undesignated, and to designate the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without further vote or 29 Table of Contents action by the stockholders. Accordingly, our Board of Directors may issue preferred stock with terms that could have preference over and adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. The issuance of any such preferred stock may: • delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our Company • adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock • discourage acquisition proposals or tender offers for our shares without the advance approval of the Board of Directors, including bids at a premium over the market price for our common stock We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions and the others discussed above may have the effect of entrenching our management team and deprive stockholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirors at a premium over market prices. The potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. Our common stock could be diluted by the conversion of outstanding convertible securities. We have issued and will continue to issue convertible securities in the form of options and warrants as incentive compensation for services performed by our employees, directors, consultants and others. As of December 31, 2005, we had options and warrants to purchase 4,392,000 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which options and warrants to purchase 3,967,000 shares of common stock were exercisable. If these options or warrants were exercised, it would dilute the ownership of our stock and could adversely affect our common stock’s market price. Our financial outlook could be affected by changes in the accounting rules which govern the recognition of stock-based compensation expenses. Through December 31, 2005, we have measured and recorded compensation expense for our employee stock compensation plans under the intrinsic value method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” Under this method, we recognized no compensation charges related to stock compensation plans because the exercise price of all options granted under these plans was equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the grant date, and therefore no stock-based employee compensation cost is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has implemented changes to accounting rules concerning the recognition of stock option compensation expense. Effective January 1, 2006, we will be required to measure compensation expense using the fair value method, which will adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our compensation expenses by the additional amount of such stock option charges. Our internal controls and procedures need to be improved. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, management used the criteria described in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. 30 Table of Contents Management determined that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2005. This material weakness is discussed under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. Because of this material weakness, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005 based on the criteria of the Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Further, the material weakness identified resulted in an adverse opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to substantially improve our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis will continue to be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. We are in the process of implementing remediation measures that are designed to eliminate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot provide assurances regarding the timing or effectiveness of the remediation measures. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we can not assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Other deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our failure to comply with certain conditions required for our common stock to be listed on the NASDAQ National Market could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ National Market. As a result of our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and our Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, and certain required restatements of our financial statements for prior periods, we were not in full compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), which requires us to make, on a timely basis, all filings with the SEC required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are required to comply with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) as a condition for our common stock to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ National Market. In April 2005, we received a notification from NASDAQ with respect to the late Form 10-K, and in July 2005, the NASDAQ granted us an extension of time until August 1, 2005 in which to file our Form 10-K, the restatements with respect to our historical financial statements, our Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005, our Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005 and to otherwise meet all necessary listing standards of the NASDAQ Market. On July 19, 2005, we filed (i) our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 which included consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 and restated consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2003 and the two years then ended and (ii) Forms 10-Q/A for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004 which included restated financial statements for the prior comparative periods as well. In July 2005, we requested an additional extension of time from NASDAQ in which to file our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 and our Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005. In August 2005, we received additional notices from NASDAQ regarding the late filing of the first quarter Form 10-Q and granting us the requested extension of time until September 30, 2005 in which to file both our first quarter Form 10-Q and our second quarter Form 10-Q, and to otherwise meet all necessary listing standards. On September 30, 2005, we filed our Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2005, and subsequently NASDAQ confirmed that we are in compliance with the continued listing requirements. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the conditions for continued listing required by NASDAQ, then our shares of common stock are subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Market. If our shares of common stock are delisted from the NASDAQ Market, they may not be eligible to trade on any national securities exchange or the over-the-counter market. If our common stock is no longer traded through a market system, it may not be liquid, which could affect its price. In addition, we may be unable to obtain future equity financing, or use our common stock as consideration for mergers or other business combinations. 31 Table of Contents Changes in government regulation or the inability to obtain or maintain necessary government approvals could harm our business. Our products are subject to extensive government regulation, both in the United States and in other countries. To clinically test, manufacture and market products for human use, we must comply with regulations and safety standards set by the FDA and comparable state and foreign agencies. Regulations adopted by the FDA are wide ranging and govern, among other things, product design, development, manufacture and testing, labeling, storage, advertising and sales. Generally, products must meet regulatory standards as safe and effective for their intended use before being marketed for human applications. The clearance process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA can result in an enforcement action which may include a variety of sanctions, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products, operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production and criminal prosecution. The failure to receive or maintain requisite approvals for the use of our products or processes, or significant delays in obtaining such approvals, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services necessary for us to remain competitive. In addition, unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements could impose significant costs and burdens on us, which could increase our operating expenses and harm our financial condition. We lack published long-term randomized trial data comparing the efficacy of our Waterlase systems with traditional dental procedures. If future data proves to be inconsistent with our clinical results, our revenues may decline. Currently, there is no randomized trial data comparing the long-term efficacy of our Waterlase laser systems to alternative treatment methods. Additional long-term patient follow-up studies may indicate that the Waterlase systems are not as safe and effective as traditional dental treatments, such as drilling. If new studies or comparative studies generate results that are not as favorable as our clinical results, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, physicians may choose not to purchase our Waterlase system until they receive additional published long-term clinical evidence and recommendations from prominent physicians that indicate our Waterlase system is effective for dental applications. Any failure in our efforts to train dental practitioners could reduce the market acceptance of our Waterlase system and reduce our revenues. There is a learning process involved for dental practitioners to become proficient in the use of our Waterlase systems. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to adequately train a sufficient number of dental practitioners and to provide them with adequate instruction in the use of our Waterlase systems. Following completion of training, we rely on the trained dental practitioners to advocate the benefits of our products in the broader marketplace. Convincing dental practitioners to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training is challenging, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. If dental practitioners are not properly trained, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products, or fail to recognize the benefits provided by our Waterlase systems. This may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and sales of our Waterlase systems. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and foreign regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are directly or indirectly, through our customers, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include, but are not limited to, the following: • The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the design, testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; 32 Table of Contents • State food and drug laws; • the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either • the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs; • Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal physician self-referral prohibition, commonly known as the Stark Law, which, in the absence of a statutory or regulatory exception, prohibits the referral of Medicare patients by a physician to an entity for the provision of designated healthcare services, if the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship, including an ownership interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the entity and also prohibits that entity from submitting a bill to a federal payor for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral; • state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians, as well as state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Law and the Stark Law, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items; and • the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licensure under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Product sales or introductions may be delayed or canceled as a result of the FDA regulatory process, which could cause our sales or profitability to decline. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and clearances to market a medical device from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities abroad can be costly and time consuming, and we cannot assure you that such approvals and clearances will be granted. Pursuant to FDA regulations, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval application. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The pre-market approval application process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. Because we cannot assure you that any new products, or any product enhancements, that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancement may occur. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not require a new product or product enhancement to go through the lengthy and expensive pre-market approval application process. Delays in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals may: • delay or eliminate commercialization of products we develop; • require us to perform costly procedures; 33 Table of Contents • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and • reduce our ability to collect revenues or royalties. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market our Waterlase and Diode laser systems, we cannot assure you that the clearance of these systems will not be withdrawn or that we will not be required to obtain new clearances or approvals for modifications or improvements to our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 