ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We have large accumulated losses, we may not maintain profitability and we require additional capital to expand our operations. We have incurred substantial losses and used substantial cash to support our activities through the development stage, complete our acquisition of the assets, refurbish Natural Soda’s plant, expand Natural Soda’s cavities and our restructuring while sustaining our activities to date. Our accumulated losses were approximately $112 million at June 30, 2010. While our business was profitable in fiscal year 2010 we must continue to operate profitably or else ultimately we cannot remain in business. We rely on key employees in Natural Resources and its subsidiaries to manage its operations and may have difficulty replacing them if they were to leave our employ. We conduct our operations with a relatively small management team so the loss of an employee through an extended illness or resignation could adversely impact our capacity to successfully fulfill our obligations and thereby impact our sales, margins and operating profitability. Natural Soda’s pricing of its products is determined in a competitive environment in which it is not generally able to lead prices. Our industry is dominated by Church & Dwight, a long time manufacturer of the Arm & Hammer brand of baking soda and related products. Natural Soda’s major competitors also include FMC and Solvay, major corporations with considerable resources, marketing expertise and broader access to customers than we do. Consequently, if there is a price war with the major companies that dominate the industry Natural Soda’s margins and profitability may be threatened. In addition, Natural Soda’s business has high fixed costs. From time to time, Natural Soda may need to reduce prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. Consequently, Natural Soda’s operating results may suffer. 19 Table of Contents The loss of any of Natural Soda’s principal customers could significantly lower its sales and profitability. Natural Soda primarily sells its animal feed grade product through customers who act as distributors. The largest of these in tonnages and revenues is Bunnett & Company who account for the majority of Natural Soda’s animal feed sales. In addition, Natural Soda sells most of its higher grade products through Vitusa Products, Inc. of Berkeley Heights, New Jersey. Another customer, Agri Dealers, Inc., represented nearly 10% of Natural Soda’s sales and together these three constituted approximately 56% of Natural Soda’s sales through June 30, 2010 and about 63% of Natural Soda’s accounts receivable at June 30, 2010. Consequently, there is also a concentration of credit risk associated with the continuing successful performance of these customers. The loss of all or part of their business could be injurious to Natural Soda’s sales, margins and profitability. Natural Soda may not be able to continue to recover sodium bicarbonate economically or at all from the cavities if there are failures in the underground operations. Natural Soda recovers its sodium bicarbonate from cavities that are about 1,900 feet underground and does so by pumping hot water through a pipe into the cavity and then recovering the pregnant liquor through a recovery pipe that is about 8 inches in diameter. If portions of an underground cavity collapse or if there are blockages in the wells, Natural Soda’s ability to recover pregnant liquor can be severely affected. It is possible a well may become unusable so that Natural Soda would have to drill new a new cavity and associated injection and recovery wells at considerable expense and delays to its production. As continuity of production requires having operational cavities and as it can take some months to drill new cavities and bring them into production, failure of existing cavities can seve rely jeopardize Natural Soda’s production capability. Natural Soda’s resource of naturally occurring sodium bicarbonate has a zone that contains some sodium chloride. The presence of too much sodium chloride in the pregnant liquor adversely impacts plant productivity and potentially may cause a reduction in the amount of sodium bicarbonate that might be recovered from a cavity. This is a high fixed cost business and if there are underground production problems or if Natural Soda is unable to sell sufficient tonnages, the relatively high fixed operating costs applied to a low volume of sales may cause the operation to not be viable. Increasing gas, power and fuel costs could erode Natural Soda’s profit margins and harm operating results. Energy costs and transport costs represent a major component of Natural Soda’s cost structure. Because of our remote location, we are dependent on limited means of transportation to bring our products to market. It may be difficult to pass on increased costs to its customers so that Natural Soda’s profitability may be adversely impacted. This could harm Natural Soda’s financial condition and operating results. Natural Soda’s operations are subject to a significant amount of regulatory scrutiny and regulation from federal and state authorities. Natural Soda’s mining and processing operations operate under permits from several state and federal authorities, including the Environmental Protection Agency, the Bureau of Land Management, and the Colorado Division of Minerals and Geology. Failure to comply with government conditions and permitting requirements may cause these permits to be revoked with material and adverse effects on Natural Soda, Natural Soda Holdings and Natural Resources. If Natural Soda loses its permits, Natural Soda may have to cease operations while it seeks their renewal. If Natural Soda cannot renew its permits, it will be out of business. Natural Soda also requires BLM approval in accordance with Natural Soda’s approved mine plan to establish new cavi ties. If this approval is denied, then Natural Soda will lose its ability to recover sodium bicarbonate from the lease. In addition, regulatory authorities may suddenly impose additional compliance obligations which may cause closure of the plant if not met or may refuse to renew leases. Natural Soda’s and Natural Soda Holdings’ sodium leases are due for renewal on June 30, 2011 and there is no assurance the BLM will renew any or all of the leases. The sodium leases contain terms with which Natural Soda and Natural Soda Holdings must comply and the renewal of those leases is subject to the discretion of the Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Management. There is a risk the BLM will not renew the Rock School Lease. The loss of any of these leases could be injurious to Natural Soda’s or Natural Soda Holdings’ business and diminish shareholder value. 20 Table of Contents The oil shale industry has attempted to exploit oil shale commercially in the past and has been unable to do so in an economically feasible manner. Even if Natural Soda Holdings and/or Natural Soda obtain a research/commercial oil shale lease, the technology may not exist during the term of the lease to exploit oil shale in an economically feasible manner. If Natural Soda Holdings and Natural Soda are unable to exploit their potential oil shale leases the value of their assets would be materially and adversely affected. In the past, the oil industry has attempted to exploit oil shale to produce commercial quantities of oil. Each time the industry has failed to develop technology that would allow it to produce commercial quantities of oil in an economically feasible manner. Recently, large volatility in the price of oil has led the oil industry to rethink the economic feasibility for producing oil from oil shale. However, it is still uncertain whether production of oil from oil shale is economically viable even with significant increases in oil prices. It is also unclear whether new technologies would significantly decrease the cost of recovering oil from oil shale. If Natural Soda Holdings or Natural Soda are unable to cost effectively exploit oil from oil shale, the value of any potential business opportunity or oil shale leases they may be able to obtain would be materially and adversely affected. The current technology for production of oil from oil shale may require a significant amount of water. The value of Natural Soda’s water rights is partly dependent on the development of commercial production of oil from oil shale on or near its properties. If such commercial oil shale market does not develop, the possible value of its water right assets may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, litigation regarding the water rights owned by Natural Soda may affect the ability of Natural Soda to fully develop all or a portion of the Natural Soda water rights. Pursuant to our restructuring agreement with Sentient, Sentient has the option until October 31, 2011 to purchase and additional 5,500,000 shares of the Company’s common stock at $.36 per share to pay for AmerAlia indebtedness that was outstanding as of October 31, 2008. If Sentient exercises this option, the Company’s shareholders will have their ownership interest diluted. In our restructuring transaction completed in October 2008, we were not able to repay all indebtedness of AmerAlia and Natural Soda Holdings owed to third parties. There are also potentially claims that we are unaware of currently. If any third party brings a claim prior to October 31, 2011 for amounts owed by the Company or Natural Soda Holdings prior to October 31, 2008, Sentient may exercise its option to purchase up to 5,500,000 shares at a purchase price of $.36 to provide the Company with the funds to pay such claim. If Sentient exercises this option, the percentage ownership of the Company held by its existing shareholders will be reduced. Sentient owns more than 90% of our shares and can take complete control of the company. Sentient currently owns nearly 95% of the issued and outstanding Common Shares. Accordingly, Sentient could unilaterally cause a “short form” merger, in which Utah law allows Sentient to force such a transaction without approval of non-Sentient shareholders. In a “short form” merger, a 90%-plus corporate shareholder forces out the remaining issued and outstanding shares for cash by operation of law, resulting in non-Sentient shareholders losing the potential future value of their Common Shares, if any. The cash-out value is set by the Directors but, pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, Sentient would have the ability to control the composition of the Board through its stock ownership. Therefore, Sentient could not only force out the non-Sentient shareh olders, but it could also effectively and unilaterally set the per share cash price received by each shareholder in such a transaction. If this occurs, the only recourse for shareholders will be to exercise dissenters’ rights pursuant to Utah law. In addition, Sentient can approve any shareholder action or block any shareholder action that it does not approve. Further, Sentient could replace our independent directors and nominate its representatives to the board of directors. This control could discourage others from initiating potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our business or holders of our common stock. In addition, the control that Sentient may exert over us, either directly or indirectly, could give rise to conflicts of interest issues. 21 Table of Contents The magnitude of the Sentient shareholding limits the size of the public float and the depth of the market for the buying and selling of our shares. The number of shares of our company that are not owned by Sentient or other insiders is a small proportion of the total number of shares outstanding. Hence, our public float is small and our shares are thinly traded with prices volatile. If a large shareholder sought to sell shares through the market it could easily depress the market value of the shares. We are currently engaged in litigation defending our water rights and our efforts to utilize our water rights could provoke further litigation. We have water rights which represent a significant asset to us. Our water rights are based on a complex body of law. We are currently engaged in litigation defending our water rights and our efforts to utilize our water rights could provoke further litigation. If we are unsuccessful in defending our water rights, we could lose the rights to significant and valuable assets. In addition, if we lose our water rights we might have to pay a third party for the water necessary to run our operations, which would increase our expenses and could make our operations unprofitable. Engaging in litigation is potentially an expensive undertaking with uncertain outcomes. If we cease to be a “smaller reporting company” in future financial years, we will be required to obtain an auditor’s attestation on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any adverse results from such attestation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on the price of our Common Shares. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have furnished a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In future years, if we cease to be a “smaller reporting company” under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 we will be required to have our auditor provide an attestation report. If during the evaluation and testing process by our auditor, the auditor may identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and then the auditor will be unable to attest that such internal control is effective. If our auditor is unable to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our common share price. We will need to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities, resulting in dilution to the existing shareholders, and if such funding is not available, our operations would be adversely effected. We do not have sufficient financial resources to undertake by ourselves all of our planned development programs. We have limited financial resources and have financed our operations primarily through investment from our majority shareholder. We will need to continue our reliance on the sale of our securities for future financing, resulting in potential dilution to existing shareholders. If adequate financing is not available, we may not be able to commence or continue with our development programs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have held discussions with the SEC regarding Investment Company Act compliance and now that we own 100% of Natural Soda Holdings and Natural Soda we believe we are not required to register under the Investment Company Act. 22 Table of Contents 