Item 1A. Risk Factors This section discusses certain factors that could cause actual results to vary, perhaps materially, from the results described in forward-looking statements made in this Report. Forward-looking statements in this Report are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties. In addition to the factors identified below, actual results may vary materially from those in such forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of other factors including the effectiveness of management’s strategies and decisions, general economic and business conditions, developments in technology, new or modified statutory or regulatory requirements, and changing prices and market conditions. This Report also identifies other factors that could cause such differences. No assurance can be given that these factors are all of the factors that could cause actual results to vary materially from the forward-looking statements. • The Cases and any plan or plans of reorganization may have adverse consequences on the Company and its stakeholders and/or our reorganization from the Cases may not be successful While we have received a confirmation order from the Court, additional conditions precedent to emergence remain including the United States District Court affirmation, completion of the Company’s exit financing, listing on the NASDAQ and formation of the trusts for the benefit of the torts claimants. As such, while we are optimistic that all of the conditions will be completed successfully, no assurances can be given that we will be able to achieve a successful reorganization and remain a going concern. Our objective has been to achieve the highest possible recoveries for all stakeholders, consistent with our ability to pay and the continuation of our businesses. The reorganization plan provides for the payments to a number of secured creditors and creditors whose claims have certain priorities. However, the equity interests of the Company’s stockholders will be cancelled without consideration and unsecured creditors without priority claims will receive settlements in the range of 2.9% of their claim. Because of such likelihood, the value of the Common Stock and unsecured claims without priority is speculative and any investment in the Common Stock and these unsecured claims would pose a high degree of risk. Additionally, while the Debtors operate their businesses as debtors-in-possession pursuant to the Code during the pendency of the Cases, the Debtors are required to obtain the approval of the Court prior to engaging in any transaction outside the ordinary course of business. In connection with any such approval, creditors and other parties in interest may raise objections to such approval and may appear and be heard at any hearing with respect to any such approval. Accordingly, the Debtors may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to the Company. The Court also has the authority to oversee and exert control over the Debtors’ ordinary course operations. At emergence from Chapter 11, KACC will have to pay or otherwise provide for a material amount of claims. Such claims include accrued but unpaid professional fees; priority pension, tax and environmental claims; secured claims; and certain post-petition obligations (collectively, “Exit Costs”). KACC currently estimates that its Exit Costs will be in the range of $45.0 million to $60.0 million. KACC currently expects to fund such Exit Costs using existing cash resources and available borrowing availability under an exit financing facility that would replace the current Post-Petition Credit Agreement (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). If funding from existing cash resources and borrowing availability under an exit financing facility are not sufficient to pay or otherwise provide for all Exit Costs, the Company and KACC will not be able to emerge from Chapter 11 unless and until sufficient funding can be obtained. Management believes it will be able to successfully resolve any issues that may arise in respect of an exit financing facility or be able to negotiate a reasonable alternative. However, no assurances can be given in this regard. 14 • We may not operate profitably in the future As discussed more fully below, the results of the Fabricated products business unit are sensitive to a number of market and economic factors outside the Company’s control and the Company competes with companies many of which have substantially greater resources. Our Fabricated products business unit, which is now our core business, reported segment operating income of $87.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to segment operating income of $33.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2004 and a segment operating loss of $21.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2003. Operating results for 2005, 2004 and 2003 included non-cash last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) inventory charges of $9.3 million, $12.1 million and $3.2 million, respectively. The improved operating results primarily reflect an increase in demand for fabricated aluminum products. There can be no assurances that the Fabricated products business unit will continue to generate a profit or that we will operate profitability in future periods. • Our business is subject to adverse changes in various market conditions outside of our control Changes in global, regional or country-specific economic conditions can have a significant impact on overall demand for aluminum-intensive products, especially in the transportation, distribution and aerospace markets. Such changes in demand may directly affect the Company’s earnings by impacting the overall volume and mix of such products sold. To the extent that these end-use markets weaken, demand can also diminish for primary aluminum, adversely affecting the financial results of the Company relating to its interests in Anglesey, which owns and operates an aluminum smelter. The price of primary aluminum has historically been subject to significant cyclical price fluctuations, and the timing of changes in the market price of aluminum is largely unpredictable. Although the Company’s pricing of fabricated aluminum products will generally be intended to lock in a conversion margin (representing the value added from the fabrication process) and pass the risk of price fluctuations on to its customers, the Company may not be able to pass on the entire cost of such increases to its customers or offset fully the effects of higher costs for other raw materials, which may cause the Company’s profitability to decline. There will also be a potential time lag between increases in prices for raw materials under the Company’s purchase contracts and the point when the Company can implement a corresponding increase in price under its sales contracts with its customers. As a result, the Company may be exposed to fluctuations in raw materials prices, including aluminum, since, during the time lag, the Company may have to bear the additional cost of the price increase under its purchase contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. Furthermore, the Company will be party to arrangements based on fixed prices that include the primary aluminum price component, so that the Company will bear the entire risk of rising aluminum prices, which may cause its profitability to decline. In addition, an increase in raw materials prices may cause some of the customers of the Company to substitute other materials for their products, adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations because of both a decrease in the sales of fabricated products and a decrease in demand for the primary aluminum produced at Anglesey. The Company will consume substantial amounts of energy in its operations. A number of factors could increase the cost of energy, and, if energy prices rise, the profitability of the Company could decline. • Our profits and cash flows may be adversely impacted by the results of KACC’s hedging programs From time to time in the ordinary course of business, KACC enters into hedging transactions to limit its exposure resulting from price risks in respect of primary aluminum prices, energy prices and foreign currency requirements. Entering into such hedging transactions, while reducing or removing our exposure to price risk, may cause our profits and cash flow to be lower than they otherwise would have been. • We operate in a highly competitive industry Each of the segments of the aluminum industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. There are numerous companies that operate in the aluminum industry. Certain of our competitors are substantially larger, have greater financial resources than we do and may have other strategic advantages. 15 • Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of specific customers or changes in the business or financial condition of specific customers In 2005, the largest customer of the Company’s fabricated products business unit accounted for approximately 11% of the Company’s third-party net sales, and the largest five customers accounted for approximately 33% of the Company’s third-party net sales. If existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated and the Company is not successful in replacing lost business, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of the Company’s significant customers could materially adversely affect the results of operations. • Unplanned business interruptions may adversely impact our performance The production of fabricated aluminum products is subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, transportation interruptions and supply interruptions. Operational interruptions at one of the Company’s production facilities could cause substantial losses in the Company’s production capacity. Furthermore, because customers may be dependent on planned deliveries from the Company, customers that have to reschedule their own production due to delivery delays from the Company may be able to pursue financial claims against them, and the Company may incur costs to correct such problems in addition to any liability resulting from such claims. Such interruptions may also harm the reputation of the Company among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, the Company’s cash flows may be adversely impacted by such events. A significant number of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions under labor contracts with varying durations and expiration dates. The Company may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate the labor contracts when they expire, in which case there could potentially be a work stoppage at one of more of the Company’s facilities in the future. Any work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on the income and cash flows of the Company. • Expiration of power agreement of Anglesey may adversely impact our cash flows and hedging programs The agreement under which Anglesey receives power expires in September 2009 and the nuclear facility which supplies such power is scheduled to cease operations shortly thereafter. No assurance can be given that Anglesey will be able to obtain sufficient power to sustain its operations on reasonably acceptable terms thereafter. In addition, any decrease in Anglesey’s production would reduce or eliminate the “natural hedge” against rising primary aluminum prices created by the Company’s access to such aluminum (see “Primary Aluminum Business Unit — Hedging”) and, accordingly the Company may deem it appropriate to increase their hedging activity to limit exposure to such price risks, potentially adversely affecting the income and cash flows of the Company. • Loss of key management and other personnel or inability to attract management or other personnel may adversely impact performance The Company will depend on its senior executive offices and other key personnel to run its business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially adversely affect the Company’s operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of the business of the Company could hinder their ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. • Compliance with health and safety laws and regulations may adversely affect our results of operations The operations of the Company will be regulated by a wide variety of health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be costly and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to change and there can be no assurance as to the effect that any such changes would have on the Company’s operations or the amount that the Company would have to spend to comply with such laws and regulations as so changed. 16 • Other legal proceedings or investigations or changes of laws and regulations in which we will be subject may adversely affect our operations In addition to environmental proceedings and investigations of the types described above, the Company may from time to time be involved in, or be the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including matters related to health and safety, product liability, employees, taxes and contracts, as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. It could be costly to defend against any claims against the Company or any investigations involving the Company, whether meritorious or not, and such efforts could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources, negatively impacting the Company’s results of operations. It could also be costly to make payments on account of any such claims. Additionally, as with the environmental laws and regulations to which the Company will be subject, the other laws and regulations which will govern the business of the Company are subject to change and there can be no assurance as to the amount that the Company would have to spend to comply with such laws and regulations as so changed or otherwise as to the effect that any such changes would have on the Company’s operations. • KACC’s current or past operations subject it to environmental compliance, clean-up and damage claims that have been and continue to be costly The operations of KACC’s and its subsidiaries’ facilities are regulated by a wide variety of international, federal, state and local environmental laws. These environmental laws regulate, among other things, air and water emissions and discharges; the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the release of hazardous or toxic substances, pollutants and contaminants into the environment. Compliance with these environmental laws is costly. While legislative, regulatory and economic uncertainties make it difficult for us to project future spending for these purposes, we currently anticipate that in the 2006 — 2007 period, KACC’s environmental capital spending will be approximately $1.1 million per year and that KACC’s operating costs will include pollution control costs totaling approximately $3.0 million per year. However, subsequent changes in environmental laws may change the way KACC must operate and may force KACC to spend more than we currently project. Additionally, KACC’s current and former operations can subject it to fines or penalties for alleged breaches of environmental laws and to other actions seeking clean-up or other remedies under these environmental laws. KACC also may be subject to damages related to alleged injuries to health or to the environment, including claims with respect to certain waste disposal sites and the clean-up of sites currently or formerly used by KACC. Currently, KACC is subject to certain lawsuits under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (“CERCLA”). KACC, along with certain other companies, has been named as a Potentially Responsible Party for clean-up costs at certain third-party sites listed on the National Priorities List under CERCLA. As a result, KACC may be exposed not only to its assessed share of clean-up but also to the costs of others if they are unable to pay. In response to environmental concerns, we have established environmental accruals representing our estimate of the costs we reasonably expect KACC to incur in connection with these matters. At December 31, 2005, the balance of our accruals, which are primarily included in our long-term liabilities, was $46.5 million. We estimate that the annual costs charged to these environmental accruals will be approximately $14.5 million in 2006, $2 million to $3.8 million per year for the years 2007 through 2010 and an aggregate of approximately $25.5 million thereafter. However, we cannot assure you that KACC’s actual costs will not exceed our current estimates. We believe that it is reasonably possible that costs associated with these environmental matters may exceed current accruals by amounts that could range, in the aggregate, up to an estimated $20.0 million. During April 2004, KACC was served with a subpoena for documents and has been notified by Federal authorities that they are investigating certain environmental compliance issues with respect to KACC’s Trentwood facility in Spokane,Washington. KACC is undertaking its own internal investigation of the matter through specially retained counsel to ensure that it has all relevant facts regarding Trentwood’s compliance with applicable environmental laws. KACC believes it is in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and requirements 17 at the Trentwood facility and intends to defend any claim or charges, if any should result, vigorously. The Company cannot assess what, if any, impacts this matter may have on the Company’s or KACC’s financial statements. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on environmental matters. • KACC is subject to political and regulatory risks in a number of countries KACC’s and its subsidiaries’ facilities operate in the United States and Canada. In addition, KACC owns a 49% interest in a facility located in the United Kingdom. While we believe KACC’s relationships in the these countries are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure you that future developments or governmental actions in these countries will not adversely affect KACC’s operations particularly or our industry generally. Among the risks inherent in KACC’s operations are unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, unfavorable legal rulings, new or increased taxes and levies, and new or increased import or export restrictions. KACC’s operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of additional risks, including but not limited to currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency restrictions, and nationalization of assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 