ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.We compete for discretionary spending and discretionary free-time with many other entertainment alternatives and are subject to factors that generally affect the recreation and leisure industry, including general economic conditions.Our parks compete for discretionary spending and discretionary free-time with other amusement, water and theme parks and with other types of recreational activities and forms of entertainment, including movies, sporting events, restaurants and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that generally affect the recreation and leisure industries and are not within our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions, including relative fuel prices, and changes in consumer tastes and spending habits. The continued uncertainty regarding regional economic conditions and any deterioration in the economy generally may adversely impact attendance figures and guest spending patterns at our parks, and disproportionately affect different demographics of our target customers within our core markets. For example, group sales and season-pass sales, which represent a significant portion of our revenues, are disproportionately affected by general economic conditions. Both attendance and guest per capita spending at our parks are key drivers of our revenues and profitability, and reductions in either can directly and negatively affect revenues and profitability. The uncertain economic conditions, such as high unemployment rates, have affected our guests' levels of discretionary spending. A continued decrease in discretionary spending due to decreases in consumer confidence in the economy, a continued economic slowdown or further deterioration in the economy could adversely affect the frequency with which our guests choose to attend our amusement parks and the amount 7Table of Contentsthat our guests spend on our products when they visit. The continued materialization of these risks could lead to a decrease in our revenues, operating income and cash flows.Bad or extreme weather conditions can adversely impact attendance at our parks, which in turn would reduce our revenues.Because most of the attractions at our parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks can be adversely affected by continuous bad or extreme weather and by forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions, which would negatively affect our revenues. We believe that our ownership of many parks in different geographic locations reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the effect that adverse weather can have on our consolidated results. The operating season at most of our parks is of limited duration, which can magnify the impact of adverse conditions or events occurring within that operating season.Ten of our amusement parks are seasonal, generally operating during a portion of April or May, then daily from Memorial Day through Labor Day, and during weekends in September and, in most cases, October. Our outdoor water parks also operate seasonally, generally from Memorial Day through Labor Day and during some additional weekends before and after that period. Most of our revenues are generated during this 130- to 140-day annual operating season. As a result, when conditions or events described as risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak vacation months of July and August or the important fall season, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, the timing of such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect upon our revenues.Our growth strategy may not achieve the anticipated results.Our future success will depend on our ability to grow our business, including capital investments to improve our parks through new rides and attractions, as well as in-park product offerings and product offerings outside of our parks. Our growth and innovation strategies require significant commitments of management resources and capital investments and may not grow our revenues at the rate we expect or at all. As a result, we may not be able to recover the costs incurred in developing our new projects and initiatives or to realize their intended or projected benefits, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Cyber-security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in damages to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. In the normal course of business, we collect and retain large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, which is used for target marketing and promotional purposes, and our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of such data is critical to our business, and our guests and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the credit card industry, governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve. Maintaining compliance with applicable security and privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our parks, products and services to our guests. Furthermore, if a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Although we have not had any cyber-security incidents resulting in a breach, any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, which could harm our reputation and result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits. Although we carry liability insurance to cover this risk, there can be no assurance that our coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities, or that we will be able to obtain adequate coverage should a catastrophic incident occur.Our business depends on our ability to meet our workforce needs.Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees to keep pace with our needs. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, we employ a significant seasonal workforce. We recruit year-round to fill thousands of seasonal staffing positions each season and work to manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. There is no assurance that we will be able to recruit and hire adequate seasonal personnel as the business requires or that we will not experience material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce in the future.Increased costs of labor and employee health and welfare benefits may impact our results of operations.Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. Increased labor costs, due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs, including health care costs, or otherwise, could adversely impact our operating expenses. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and proposed amendments thereto contain provisions which could materially impact our future health-care costs. While the legislation’s ultimate impact is not yet known, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our labor costs, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.If we lose key personnel, our business may be adversely affected.Our success depends in part upon a number of key employees, including our senior management team, whose members have been involved in the leisure and hospitality industries for an average of more than 20 years. The loss of the services of our key employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business. The high fixed cost structure of amusement park operations can result in significantly lower margins if revenues decline.A large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed because the costs for full-time employees, maintenance, utilities, advertising and insurance do not vary significantly with attendance. These fixed costs may increase at a greater rate than our revenues and may not be able to be reduced at the same rate as declining revenues. If cost-cutting efforts are insufficient to offset declines in revenues or are impracticable, we could experience a material decline in margins, revenues, profitability and cash flows. Such effects can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth.8Table of ContentsThere is a risk of accidents occurring at amusement parks, which may reduce attendance and negatively impact our revenues. The safety of our guests and employees is one of our top priorities. All of our amusement parks feature thrill rides. There are inherent risks involved with these attractions, and an accident or a serious injury at any of our amusement parks may result in negative publicity and could reduce attendance and result in decreased revenues. In addition, accidents or injuries at parks operated by our competitors could influence the general attitudes of amusement park patrons and adversely affect attendance at our amusement parks.Unanticipated construction delays in completing capital improvement projects in our parks and resort facilities, or significant ride downtime, can adversely affect our revenues.A principal competitive factor for an amusement park is the uniqueness and perceived quality of its rides and attractions in a particular market area. Accordingly, the regular addition of new rides and attractions is important, and a key element of our revenue growth is strategic capital spending on new rides and attractions. Any construction delays or ride down-time can adversely affect our attendance and our ability to realize revenue growth.Instability in general economic conditions throughout the world could impact our profitability and liquidity while increasing our exposure to counter-party risk.Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as high unemployment rates, a constrained credit market, and higher prices for consumer goods, may hinder the ability of those with which we do business, including vendors, concessionaires and customers, to satisfy their obligations to us. Our exposure to credit losses will depend on the financial condition of our vendors, concessionaires and customers and other factors beyond our control, such as deteriorating conditions in the world economy or in the theme/amusement park industry. Market turmoil, coupled with a reduction of business activity, generally increases our risks related to our status as an unsecured creditor of most of our vendors, concessionaires and customers. Credit losses, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, these issues could also increase the counter-party risk inherent in our business, including with our suppliers, vendors and financial institutions with which we enter into hedging agreements and long-term debt agreements, such as our credit facilities. The soundness of these counter-parties could adversely affect us. In this difficult economic environment, our credit evaluations may be inaccurate and we cannot assure you that credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated, and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.Our debt agreements contain restrictions that could limit our flexibility in operating our business.Our credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours will likely contain, a number of covenants that could impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things: •pay distributions on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or units or make other restricted payments; •incur additional debt or issue certain preferred equity; •make certain investments; •sell certain assets; •create restrictions on distributions from restricted subsidiaries; •create liens on certain assets to secure debt; •consolidate, merge, amalgamate, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. Our credit agreement requires us to meet certain maximum leverage ratios and minimum fixed charge coverage ratios and the failure to do so may constitute an event of default under our credit agreement. As a result of these covenants, we could be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. The most critical of these ratios is the Consolidated Leverage Ratio. The maximum allowed ratio, as set forth in our credit agreement, is 6.00x Consolidated Total Debt (excluding revolving debt)-to-Consolidated EBITDA. Based on 2012 results, our Consolidated Total Debt (excluding revolving debt)-to-Consolidated EBITDA ratio at December 31, 2012 was in compliance with the covenant at 3.94x, providing $133.6 million of Consolidated EBITDA cushion on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio. In spite of this sizable cushion, to the extent that our 2013 attendance levels are negatively impacted by deteriorating economic and market conditions, and Consolidated EBITDA falls below approximately $256 million, based on debt levels at December 31, 2012, our ability to satisfy the Consolidated Leverage Ratio would be difficult. Our credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes also contain liquidity ratios that govern restricted payments, including our ability to declare and pay partnership distributions. Under the terms of the credit agreement, beginning in 2012 our ability to make restricted payments is permitted based on an Excess-Cash-Flow formula, should our pro-forma Consolidated Leverage Ratio be less than or equal to 4.50x Consolidated Total Debt (excluding revolving debt)-to-Consolidated EBITDA (as defined), measured on a quarterly basis. Under the terms of the indenture governing our notes, our ability to make restricted payments in 2012 and beyond is permitted should our trailing-twelve-month Total-Indebtedness-to-Consolidated-Cash-Flow Ratio be less than or equal to 4.75x Consolidated Total Indebtedness (including average revolving debt)-to-Consolidated EBITDA, measured on a quarterly basis. As of December 31, 2012, Total-Indebtedness-to-Consolidated-Cash-Flow Ratio was 4.08x, providing $55.0 million of Consolidated Cash Flow cushion on the ratio. 9Table of ContentsVariable rate indebtedness subjects us to the risk of higher interest rates, which could cause our future debt service obligations to increase.As of December 31, 2012, after giving consideration to current outstanding interest-rate swap arrangements, we had $331.1 million of indebtedness under our term loan facility that accrues interest at a variable rate and $1,201.1 million that is either fixed or swapped to a fixed rate. After giving consideration to the swap agreements, certain of our borrowings may be at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our annual debt service obligations on any variable-rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt agreements.We had $1,552.5 million of outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2012 (after giving effect to $16.4 million of outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility and $3.9 million of unamortized original issue discount on our notes). Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: •limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, strategic initiatives or other purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning or reacting to changes in business and future business operations; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing other indebtedness; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •make us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes, such as making strategic acquisitions, introducing new rides and attractions and exploiting business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or be able to draw under our revolving credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, including the payment of principal and interest on our debt obligations. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may be able to incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.Turmoil in the credit and capital markets could impede our future ability to refinance our long term debt or prevent us from obtaining additional funds required to effectively operate our business, including funds from our revolving credit facility.From 2008 through 2010, U.S. and global credit markets experienced significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable or previously customary terms. Additionally, the volatility in equity markets due to rapid and wide fluctuations in value resulted in a reduction of public offerings of equity securities. If these conditions return, our borrowing costs may increase, and it may be more difficult to secure funding for our operations, including capital expenditures for theme park attractions. These risks could also impact our long-term debt ratings which would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain funding. These factors are particularly important given our substantial long-term debt as of December 31, 2012 of $1,536.1 million (before reduction of $3.9 million of original issue discount on our notes).Our operations and our ownership of property subject us to environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities.We may be required to incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to water resources, discharges to air, water and land; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the cleanup of properties affected by regulated materials. Under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases from current or formerly owned or operated facilities. Environmental laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the relevant entity knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of regulated materials may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use, transfer or obtain financing regarding our property. We may be required to incur costs to remediate potential environmental hazards, mitigate environmental risks in the future, or comply with other environmental requirements.10Table of ContentsOur insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase.Companies engaged in the amusement park business may be sued for substantial damages in the event of an actual or alleged accident. An accident occurring at our parks or at competing parks could reduce attendance, increase insurance premiums, and negatively impact our operating results. Although we carry liability insurance to cover this risk, there can be no assurance that our coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities, or that we will be able to obtain adequate coverage should a catastrophic incident occur. Our tax treatment is dependent on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the tax laws were to treat us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation, it may substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.We are a limited partnership under Delaware law and are treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A change in current tax law may cause us to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our entire taxable income at the corporate tax rate, rather than only on the taxable income from our corporate subsidiaries, and may be subject to additional state taxes at varying rates. Further, unitholder distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions or dividends and no income, gains, losses, or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because additional entity level taxes would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution could be substantially reduced. Although we are not currently aware of any legislative proposal that would adversely impact our treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.Other factors, including local events, natural disasters and terrorist activities, can adversely impact park attendance and our revenues.Lower attendance may result from various local events, natural disasters or terrorist activities, all of which are outside of our control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.11Table of Contents