Item 1A. Risk Factors Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. A general economic downturn began in the latter half of 2007. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many loans has declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. We believe that the economic downtrends are largely responsible for the deterioration in loan quality that we experienced in 2008 and 2009, including higher levels of loan charge-offs, higher levels of nonperforming assets, and higher provisions for loan losses. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions, including us, have experienced a decrease in access to borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased governmental action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. The FDIC has increased deposit insurance premiums and assessments to restore its deposit insurance funds. We may be required to pay even higher premiums to the FDIC because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions are expected to increase. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience additional increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. There can be no assurance that recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions will stabilize the U.S. banking system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, authorized the U.S. Treasury to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies under a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. The purpose of the TARP was to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the U.S. Treasury invested capital in qualified financial institutions in exchange for senior preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of equity securities of the financial institution. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000 until December 31, 2013. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and other regulatory authorities seeking to address liquidity and credit issues resulting from the economic downturn that began in 2007. These measures have included homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity 18 Table of Contents and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are vulnerable to the economic conditions within the fairly small geographic region in which we operate. Like many businesses, our overall success is partially dependent on the economic conditions in the marketplace where we operate. Our marketplace is predominately concentrated in the central Piedmont and coastal regions of North Carolina. As is the case for most of the country, these regions are currently experiencing recessionary economic conditions, which we believe is a factor in our increases in borrower delinquencies, nonperforming assets, and loan losses during 2009 compared to recent prior years. If economic conditions in our marketplace worsen, it could have an adverse impact on us. In particular, if economic conditions related to real estate values in our marketplace were to worsen, our loan losses would likely increase. At December 31, 2009, approximately 90% of our loans were secured by real estate collateral, which means that additional decreases in real estate values could have an adverse impact on our operations. Current levels of unprecedented market volatility may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices for certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. We believe this is the case with our common stock as our stock price has ranged from a low of $6.87 in March 2009 to a high of $19.00 in September 2009. The market value of our stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets generally, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our stock. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The test for goodwill impairment involves comparing the fair value of a company’s reporting units to their respective carrying values. For our company, our community banking operation is our only material reporting unit. The price of our common stock is one of several measures available for estimating the fair value of our community banking operations. For much of 2009, the stock market value of our common stock traded below the book value of our company. Subject to the results of other valuation techniques, if this situation persists or worsens, this could indicate that our next test of goodwill will result in a determination that there is impairment. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We might be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be available on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required to maintain adequate capital levels to support our operations. In the future, we might need to raise additional capital to support growth or absorb loan losses. Our access to capital markets (excluding the Capital Purchase Program) has remained limited for most of the past two years. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital in the future if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to conduct our business could be materially impaired. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since the middle of 2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially adversely affected by substantial declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a significant lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and investment banks. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We can make no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision from the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. This regulation and supervision is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund and our depositors and borrowers, rather than for holders of our equity securities. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. As an example, the Federal Reserve Board has amended Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and the official staff commentary to the regulation, which interprets the requirements of Regulation E. The amended regulation limits the ability of a financial institution to assess an overdraft fee for paying automated teller machine (ATM) and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account, unless the consumer affirmatively consents, or opts in, to the institution’s payment of overdrafts for these transactions. The rule has a mandatory compliance date of July 1, 2010 for new accounts and August 15, 2010 for existing accounts. We believe that implementation of the new provisions will result in the reduction of overdraft fees collected. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Changes in the regulations that apply to us, or changes in our compliance with regulations, could have a material impact on our operations. Additionally, the documents that we executed with the Treasury when they purchased the Series A preferred stock allow the Treasury to unilaterally change the terms of the Series A preferred stock or impose additional requirements on us if there is a change in law. For example, the Stimulus Act imposed executive compensation restrictions that went beyond those imposed by the terms of the Capital Purchase Program. Additional changes or requirements could restrict our ability to conduct business, could subject us to additional cost and expense or 20 Table of Contents could change the terms of the senior preferred stock agreement to the detriment of our common shareholders. While it may be possible for us to redeem the senior preferred stock in the event the Treasury imposes any changes or additional requirements that we believe are detrimental, there can be no assurances that our federal regulator will approve such redemption (as is required by law) or that we will have the ability to implement such redemption. Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executive officers. Pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement between our company and the U.S. Treasury, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common stock if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. Further, until January 9, 2012, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 ($0.19 per share) without the U.S. Treasury’s approval unless all of the shares of Series A preferred stock have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. The consent of the U.S. Treasury generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until January 9, 2012, unless all of the shares of Series A preferred stock have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, we may not repurchase any shares of our common stock if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement between our company and the U.S. Treasury, we agreed to adhere to the U.S. Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds the equity securities issued pursuant to the agreement, including the shares of common stock which may be issued upon exercise of the warrant. The EESA that was signed into law on February 17, 2009 contains additional restrictions on executive compensation and standards of corporate governance that go beyond those in the securities purchase agreement. See the section above entitled “U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program” for additional discussion of this matter. We are subject to interest rate risk, which could negatively impact earnings. Net interest income is the most significant component of our earnings. Our net interest income results from the difference between the yields we earn on our interest-earning assets, primarily loans and investments, and the rates that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, primarily deposits and borrowings. When interest rates change, the yields we earn on our interest-earning assets and the rates we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities do not necessarily move in tandem with each other because of the difference between their maturities and repricing characteristics. This mismatch can negatively impact net interest income if the margin between yields earned and rates paid narrows. Interest rate environment changes can occur at any time and are affected by many factors that are outside our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment trends, the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses caused by customer loan defaults. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and in this case additional and larger provisions for loan losses would be required to replenish the allowance. Provisions for loan losses are a direct charge against income. 21 Table of Contents We establish the amount of the allowance for loan losses based on historical loss rates, as well as estimates and assumptions about future events. Because of the extensive use of estimates and assumptions, our actual loan losses could differ, possibly significantly, from our estimate. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to provide for probable losses, but it is possible that the allowance for loan losses will need to be increased for credit reasons or that regulators will require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our earnings and profitability. The value of our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in the securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become volatile over the past twelve months. The continuing volatility of securities markets could detrimentally affect the value of our investment securities, including reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. We can make no assurance that declines in market value related to disruptions in the securities markets will not result in other than temporary impairment of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. In the normal course of business, we process large volumes of transactions involving millions of dollars. If our internal controls fail to work as expected, if our systems are used in an unauthorized manner, or if our employees subvert our internal controls, we could experience significant losses. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk includes the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. Although not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. From time to time, losses from operational risk may occur, including the effects of operational errors. We continually monitor and improve our internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate-wide processes and procedures, but there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. Although we have historically paid cash dividends, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, economic conditions, and such other factors as the board may deem relevant. As a result of the board of directors’ consideration of these factors, beginning in the first quarter of 2009, our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share, which was a decrease from the previous rate of $0.19 per share. The board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share for each quarter in 2009. As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury’s consent will be required for any dividends paid to common stockholders above a quarterly dividend rate of $0.19 per common share until January 9, 2012, unless prior to then the Series A preferred shares are redeemed in whole or the Treasury has transferred all of these shares to third parties. Also, in the event that we do not pay dividends due on the Series A preferred stock, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. 22 Table of Contents The $67.9 million gain we recorded in connection with the acquisition of Cooperative Bank could be retroactively decreased. We accounted for the Cooperative Bank acquisition under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of Cooperative at fair value based on preliminary purchase accounting adjustments. Determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, particularly illiquid assets and liabilities, is a complicated process involving a significant amount of judgment regarding estimates and assumptions. Based on the preliminary adjustments made, the fair value of the assets we acquired exceeded the fair value of the liabilities assumed by $53.8 million, which resulted in a gain for our Company. During the third and fourth quarters of 2009, we obtained third-party appraisals for the majority of Cooperative’s collateral dependent problem loans. Overall, the appraised values were higher than our original estimates made as of the acquisition date. In addition, during the third and fourth quarters, we received payoffs related to certain loans for which losses had been anticipated. Accordingly, as required by relevant accounting rules, we retrospectively adjusted the fair value of the loans acquired for these factors, which resulted in the gain being adjusted upward to $67.9 million. Under purchase accounting, we have until one year after the acquisition to finalize the fair value adjustments, meaning that until then we could materially adjust the fair value estimates of Cooperative’s assets and liabilities based on new or updated information. Such adjustments could reduce or eliminate the extent by which the assets acquired exceeded the liabilities assumed and would result in a retroactive decrease to the $67.9 million gain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 