Item 1A. Risk Factors This Item may contain statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Item 1. “Business — Forward-Looking Statements” for cautionary information with respect to such forward-looking statements. Such cautionary information should be read as applying to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Report. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary from those in forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors including those we discuss in this Item and elsewhere in this Report. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the risks described below are those that we believe are material to our company. The occurrence of any of the events discussed below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial position, results of operations and cash flows as well as the trading price of our common stock.We have experienced and continue to experience the effects of global economic uncertainty.The U.S. and global economies continue to experience a period of uncertainty with wide-ranging effects, including:•disruption in global financial markets that has at times reduced the liquidity available to us, our customers, our suppliers and the purchasers of products that materially affect demand for our products, including commercial airlines;•a weakened global banking and financial system that creates ongoing risk and exposure to the impact of non-performance by banks committed to provide financing, hedging counterparties, insurers, customers and suppliers;•volatility in commodity prices that can materially impact the results of our hedging strategies, create near-term cash margin requirements, reduce the value of our inventories and borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and result in substantial non-cash charges as we adjust inventory values and mark-to-market our hedge positions;•substantial fluctuations in consumer spending that have at times reduced the demand for some applications that use our products;•destocking and restocking of inventory levels throughout the supply chain for certain of our products;•our inability to achieve the level of growth or other benefits anticipated from our acquisitions and other strategic investments, and the integration of acquired businesses;•increases in our costs, including the cost of energy, raw materials and freight, which we may not be able to pass entirely through to our customers;•pressure to reduce defense spending, which reductions could affect demand for our products used in defense applications, as the U.S. and foreign governments are faced with competing national priorities; and•the inability to predict with any certainty the success or failure of efforts to reduce government deficit spending or the scope, nature or effect of such efforts.We are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these effects, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We operate in a highly competitive industry.The fabricated products segment of the aluminum industry is highly competitive. Competition in the sale of fabricated aluminum products is based upon quality, availability, price, service, and delivery performance. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we do, and may have other strategic advantages, including more efficient technologies or lower or more stable raw material costs. Our facilities are located in North America. To the extent that our competitors have or develop production facilities located outside North America, they may be able to produce similar products at a lower cost or sell those products at a lower price either during periods when the currency exchange rates favor foreign competition or through a process of dumping those products in violation of existing trade laws. We may not be able to adequately reduce our costs or prices to compete with these products. Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 9We depend on a core group of significant customers.In 2013, our largest fabricated products customer, Reliance Steel & Aluminum Company, accounted for approximately 23% of our fabricated products net sales, and our five largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of our fabricated products net sales. If our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated and we are not successful in replacing lost business, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a prolonged or increasing downturn in the business or financial position of any of our significant customers could cause any one or more of them to limit purchases to contractual minimum volumes, seek relief from contractual minimums or breach those obligations, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our industry is very sensitive to foreign economic, regulatory and political factors that may adversely affect our business.We import primary aluminum from, and manufacture fabricated products used in, foreign countries. Factors in the politically and economically diverse countries in which we operate or have customers or suppliers, including inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, availability of financial capital, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected by:•acts of war or terrorism or the threat of war or terrorism;•government regulation in the countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials;•the implementation of controls on imports, exports or prices;•the adoption of new forms of taxation and duties;•new forms of emission controls and tax, commonly known as “cap and trade”;•the imposition of currency restrictions;•the nationalization or appropriation of rights or other assets; and•trade disputes involving countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials.The commercial aerospace industry is cyclical and downturns in the commercial aerospace industry, including downturns resulting from acts of terrorism, could adversely affect our business.We derive a significant portion of our revenue from products sold to the aerospace industry, which is highly cyclical. The aerospace industry is historically driven by the demand for new commercial aircraft. Demand for commercial aircraft is influenced by trends in airline passenger traffic and increasing global travel, normal replacement of older aircraft, accelerated replacement of fuel inefficient aircraft, airline industry profitability, the state of the U.S. and global economies, the effects of terrorism, and numerous other factors, including safety concerns with newly introduced aircraft, any of which could result in a sharp decrease globally in new commercial aircraft deliveries and order cancellations or deferrals by the major airlines. Despite existing backlogs, financial uncertainty in the industry, inadequate liquidity of certain airline companies, terrorist acts or the increased threat of terrorism may lead to reduced demand for new aircraft that utilize our products, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Reductions in defense spending for aerospace and non-aerospace military applications could substantially reduce demand for our products.Our products are used in a wide variety of military applications, including military jets, armored vehicles and ordnance. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Many of the programs in which we participate may extend several years; however, these programs are normally funded annually. Changes in military strategy and priorities may affect current and future programs. In recent years, the demand for our products for defense-related applications arose from the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Such conflicts and similar events are unplanned and unpredictable. Virtually all U.S. troops have been withdrawn from Iraq and Afghanistan, which permits reductions in the level of defense spending. With significant pressure to reduce defense spending as the U.S. and foreign governments are faced with competing national priorities, reductions in defense spending could reduce the demand for our products and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our customers may reduce their demand for aluminum products in favor of alternative materials.Our fabricated aluminum products compete with products made from other materials, such as steel, titanium, and composites, for various applications. For instance, the commercial aerospace industry has used and continues to evaluate the further use of alternative materials to aluminum, such as titanium and composites, in order to reduce the weight and increase the fuel efficiency of aircraft. Additionally, the automotive industry, while motivated to reduce vehicle weight with the use of 10aluminum, may revert to steel for certain applications. The willingness of customers to accept other materials in lieu of aluminum could adversely affect the demand for our products, particularly our aerospace and high strength products and Automotive Extrusions, and thus adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Downturns in the automotive and ground transportation industries could adversely affect our business.The demand for our Automotive Extrusions and many of our general engineering and other industrial products is dependent on the production of cars, light trucks, SUVs, and heavy duty vehicles and trailers in North America. The automotive industry is highly cyclical, as new vehicle demand is dependent on consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the North American economy. Weak demand for, or lower production of, new cars, light trucks, SUVs, and heavy duty vehicles and trailers, particularly by U.S. manufacturers, could adversely affect the demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, in recent years, several North American automotive related manufacturers and first tier suppliers experienced severe financial difficulty, including bankruptcy, with serious effects on the conditions of markets that directly affect the demand for our products. If other North American automotive-related manufacturers and first tier suppliers experience similar financial difficulties or bankruptcy, there again could be serious effects on such markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Changes in consumer demand for particular motor vehicles could adversely affect our business.Sensitivity to energy costs and consumer preferences can influence consumer demand for motor vehicles that have a higher content of the aluminum Automotive Extrusions that we supply. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We face pressure from our automotive customers on pricing.Cost cutting initiatives that our automotive customers have adopted generally result in downward pressure on pricing, and our automotive customers typically seek agreements requiring reductions in pricing over the period of production. Pricing pressure may intensify as North American automobile manufacturers continue to aggressively pursue cost cutting initiatives. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset any required price reductions, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.Reductions in demand for our products may be more severe than, and may occur prior to reductions in demand for, our customers’ products.Customers purchasing our fabricated aluminum products, such as those in the cyclical aerospace industry, generally require significant lead time in the production of their own products. Therefore, demand for our products may increase prior to demand for our customers’ products. Conversely, demand for our products may decrease as our customers anticipate a downturn in their respective businesses. As demand for our customers’ products begins to soften, our customers typically reduce or eliminate their demand for our products and meet the reduced demand for their products using their own inventory without replenishing that inventory, which results in a reduction in demand for our products that is greater than the reduction in demand for their products. This amplified reduction in demand for our products in the event of a downturn in our customers’ respective businesses (destocking) may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions which may adversely affect our business.The production of fabricated aluminum products and aluminum is subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, labor disruptions, transportation interruptions and supply interruptions. Operational interruptions at one or more of our production facilities, particularly interruptions at our Spokane (Trentwood), Washington facility where our production of plate and sheet is concentrated, could cause substantial losses in our production capacity. Furthermore, because customers may be dependent on planned deliveries from us, customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our delivery delays may be able to pursue financial claims against us, and we may incur costs to correct such problems in addition to any liability resulting from such claims. Interruptions may also harm our reputation among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by such events.Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity.Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our $225.0 million of 8.250% Senior Notes due 2020 ("Senior Notes") contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: 11•incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; •pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; •issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; •make loans and investments;•sell assets; •incur liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •alter the businesses we conduct; •enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.However, while the indenture governing the Senior Notes places limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase or redeem capital stock, and make loans and investments, these limitations are subject to significant qualifications and exceptions. The aggregate amount of payments made in compliance with these limitations could be substantial. In addition, restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility require us in certain circumstances to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. You should read our more detailed descriptions of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the documents themselves, for further information about these covenants. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the indenture governing the Senior Notes or under our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under our revolving credit facility could permit the lenders under our revolving credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay any amounts due and payable under our revolving credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: •limited in how we conduct our business; •unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or •unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of financing. In addition, a payment default, or an acceleration following an event of default, under our revolving credit facility, our indenture for our 4.5% Cash Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 ("Convertible Notes") or our indenture for our Senior Notes, could trigger an event of default under the others, which could result in the principal of and the accrued and unpaid interest on all such debt becoming due and payable.Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our debt.Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the Senior Notes and our Convertible Notes, depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes and Convertible Notes. 12If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes and Convertible Notes. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or certain forms of equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate asset dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the Senior Notes and Convertible Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The conditional conversion features of our Convertible Notes, if triggered and exercised, may adversely affect our financial position, operating results and cash flows.In the event the conditional conversion features of our Convertible Notes are triggered, holders of such notes are entitled to convert such notes at any time during specified periods at their option. Because our closing stock price exceeded 130% of the conversion price for 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on December 31, 2013, the last trading date of the fourth quarter of 2013, a conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes was triggered, enabling holders to convert their Convertible Notes during the first quarter of 2014. The Company believes that the market value of the Convertible Notes will continue to exceed the amount of cash payable upon conversion, making early conversion unlikely. However, if one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we would be required to settle our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity and result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flows. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the issuance of our Convertible Notes may affect the market price of our common stock.In connection with the issuance of our Convertible Notes, we entered into privately negotiated transactions whereby we purchased cash-settled call options relating to shares of our common stock and sold to the same option counterparties net-share-settled warrants relating to our common stock.We understand that the option counterparties and/or their affiliates have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock in order to hedge their exposure to fluctuations and volatility in the price of our common stock and that the option counterparties and/or their affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of our Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during any settlement averaging period related to a conversion of our Convertible Notes). The effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.The option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default or otherwise fail to perform, or may exercise certain rights to terminate their obligations, under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our convertible note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in volatility of our common stock. A default or other failure to perform, or a termination of obligations, by one of the option counterparties could materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties.We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our Senior Notes or our other indebtedness. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, 13debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the Senior Notes or other indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the Senior Notes or other indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our productivity and cost reduction initiatives.As the economy and markets for our products move through economic downturns or supply otherwise begins to exceed demand through increases in capacity or reduced demand, it is increasingly important for us to be a low cost producer. Although we have undertaken and expect to continue to undertake productivity and cost reduction initiatives to improve performance, including deployment of company-wide business improvement methodologies, such as our Kaiser Production System, which involves the integrated application of continuous improvement tools such as Lean Manufacturing, Six Sigma and Total Productive Manufacturing, we cannot assure you that all of these initiatives will be completed or beneficial to us or that any estimated cost saving from such activities will be fully realized. Even when we are able to generate new efficiencies successfully in the short- to medium-term, we may not be able to continue to reduce cost and increase productivity over the long term.Our business could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials and freight.The price of primary aluminum has historically been subject to significant cyclical price fluctuations, and the timing of changes in the market price of aluminum is largely unpredictable. Although our pricing of fabricated aluminum products is generally intended to pass the risk of price fluctuations on to our customers, we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of higher costs for other raw materials or freight through the use of surcharges and other measures, which may cause our profitability to decline. There will also be a potential time lag between increases in costs for raw materials or freight under our purchase contracts and the point when we can implement a corresponding increase in price under our sales contracts with our customers. As a result, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the costs for raw material, including aluminum and freight, since, during the time lag, we may have to bear the additional cost increase under our purchase contracts. If these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, increases in raw material costs may cause some of our customers to substitute other materials for our products over time, adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to a decrease in the sales of fabricated aluminum products.The price volatility of energy costs may adversely affect our business.Our income and cash flows depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including energy costs) at which we are able to sell our fabricated aluminum products. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our production facilities affect operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets and the potential regulation of greenhouse gases. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Legislation on derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities.We use over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives products to hedge our risks relating to primary aluminum prices, energy prices, and foreign currency. Recent legislation has been adopted to increase the regulatory oversight of the OTC derivatives markets and impose restrictions on certain derivative transactions, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. If regulations subject us to additional capital or margin requirements or other restrictions on our trading and commodity positions, they could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities.Our hedging programs may limit the income and cash flows we would otherwise expect to receive if our hedging program were not in place and may otherwise affect our business.From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we enter into hedging transactions to limit our exposure to price risks relating to primary aluminum prices, energy prices and foreign currency. To the extent that market prices or exchange rates at 14the expiration of these hedging transactions would have been more favorable to us than the fixed prices or rates established by these hedging transactions, our income and cash flows will be lower than they otherwise would have been. Additionally, to the extent that primary aluminum prices, energy prices and/or foreign currency exchange rates deviate materially and adversely from fixed, floor or ceiling prices or rates established by outstanding hedging transactions, we fail to satisfy certain covenants, or an event of default occurs under the terms of the underlying documents, we could incur margin calls that could adversely impact our liquidity and result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, we are exposed to risks associated with the credit worthiness of our hedging counterparties. The credit worthiness of hedging counterparties is inherently difficult to assess and can change quickly and dramatically, as demonstrated by the significant trading losses and bankruptcies of some large financial institutions in recent years. Non-performance by a counterparty could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, as well as inflation and other economic factors, in the countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials.Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, in the countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. In particular, lower valuation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar and Euro, may affect our profitability as some important raw materials are purchased in other currencies, while products generally are sold in U.S. dollars.Our ability to keep key management and other personnel in place and our ability to attract management and other personnel may affect our performance.We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business, and we design our compensation programs to attract and retain key personnel and facilitate our ability to develop effective succession plans. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel or failure to attract key personnel could materially and adversely affect our succession planning and operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products.Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could adversely affect our business.A significant number of our employees are represented by labor unions under labor contracts with varying durations and expiration dates, including labor contracts with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, AFL - CIO, CLC (“USW”), covering seven of our manufacturing locations. Employees represented by labor unions under labor contracts represented approximately 62% of our employees at December 31, 2013. Contracts at our manufacturing locations expire in 2014 through 2017. We may not be able to renegotiate or negotiate these or our other labor contracts on satisfactory terms. As part of any negotiation, we may reach agreements with respect to future wages and benefits that could materially and adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, negotiations could divert management attention or result in union-initiated work actions, including strikes or work stoppages, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, the existence of labor agreements may not prevent such union-initiated work actions.Our participation in multi-employer union pension plans may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.We are required to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded. Benefits generally are based on a fixed amount for each year of service. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe a number of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related items will be issues in the negotiation of our collective bargaining agreements. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. The failure of a withdrawing employer to fund these obligations can impact remaining employers. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans and other employers who participate in the plans, government regulations and the actual return on assets held in the plans, among other factors.Our business is regulated by a wide variety of health and safety laws and regulations and compliance may be costly and may adversely affect our business.Our operations are regulated by a wide variety of health and safety laws and regulations, including recently executed federal health care legislation. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be costly and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to change at any time, and we can give 15you no assurance as to the effect that any such changes would have on our operations or the amount that we would have to spend to comply with such laws and regulations as so changed.Environmental compliance, clean up and damage claims may decrease our cash flow and adversely affect our business.We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations with respect to, among other things: air and water emissions and discharges; the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the release of hazardous or toxic substances, pollutants and contaminants into the environment. Compliance with these environmental laws is and will continue to be costly.Our continuing operations and certain of our former operations have subjected, and may in the future subject, us to fines, penalties and expenses for alleged breaches of environmental laws and to obligations to perform investigations or clean up of the environment. We may also be subject to claims from governmental authorities or third parties related to alleged injuries to the environment, human health or natural resources, including claims with respect to waste disposal sites, the clean up of sites currently or formerly used by us or exposure of individuals to hazardous materials. Any investigation, clean-up or other remediation costs, fines or penalties, or costs to resolve third-party claims, may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We have accrued, and will accrue, for costs relating to the above matters that are reasonably expected to be incurred based on available information. However, it is possible that actual costs may differ, perhaps significantly, from the amounts expected or accrued. Similarly, the timing of those expenditures may occur faster than anticipated. These differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may be enacted, including government mandated green initiatives and limitations on carbon emissions, that increase the cost or complexity of compliance. Difference in actual costs, the timing of payments for previously accrued costs and the impact of new or amended laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Governmental regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions may subject us to significant new costs and restrictions on our operations.Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Laws enacted by Congress or policies of the Environmental Protection Agency could regulate greenhouse gas emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions of greenhouse gas. In addition, several states, including states where we have manufacturing plants, are considering various greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. Certain of our manufacturing plants use significant amounts of energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of our plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas above certain minimum thresholds that are likely to be imposed by existing proposals. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity we purchase, increase costs for our use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions or result in an overall increase in our costs of raw materials, any one of which could significantly increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect our business, operations or financial results. It is too early to predict how existing or future regulation will affect our business, operations or financial results.Other legal proceedings or investigations or changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our business.In addition to the matters described above, we may from time to time be involved in, or be the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including matters related to personal injury, employees, taxes and contracts, as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. It could be costly to address these claims or any investigations involving them, whether meritorious or not, and legal proceedings and investigations could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources, negatively affecting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Additionally, as with environmental laws and regulations, the other laws and regulations which govern our business are subject to change at any time. Compliance with changes to existing laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs and could adversely affect our business.We are sometimes exposed to product liability claims. While we generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks, a successful claim that is not insured, exceeds our available insurance coverage, or is no longer fully insured as a result of the insolvency of one or more of the underlying carriers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 16Our investment and other expansion projects may not be completed or start up as scheduled.We are currently engaged in, and have recently completed, various investment and expansion projects. Our ability to complete such projects, and the timing and costs of doing so, are subject to various risks associated with all major construction projects, many of which are beyond our control, including technical or mechanical problems, economic conditions and permitting. Additionally, the start up of operations after such projects have been completed can be complicated and costly. If we are unable to fully complete these projects, if the actual costs for these projects exceed our expectations, or if the start up phase after completion is more complicated than anticipated, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions.A component of our growth strategy is to acquire fabricated products assets in order to complement our product portfolio. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and support our growth, many of which are beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to:•diversion of management’s time and attention from our existing business;•challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations;•difficulties integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations;•liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance;•greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results;•difficulties achieving anticipated operational improvements;•incurrence of indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and•issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interests of existing stockholders.We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may not be able to adequately protect proprietary rights to our technology.Our success will depend in part upon our proprietary technology and processes. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures, these measures may not be adequate, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may offer significantly less intellectual property protection than is offered by the laws of the United States. In addition, any attempts to enforce our intellectual property rights, even if successful, could result in costly and prolonged litigation, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property may adversely affect our results of operations as our competitors would be able to utilize such property without having had to incur the costs of developing it, thus potentially reducing our relative profitability. Furthermore, we may be subject to claims that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of another. Even if without merit, those claims could result in costly and prolonged litigation, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements in order to continue using technology that is important to our business, or we may be unable to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms, either of which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and manage and operate our business. A breach in cyber security could expose us and our customers and suppliers to risks of misuse of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business or results of operations. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. In addition, from time to time we may replace and/or upgrade our current information technology systems. These activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and updating these systems, including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or 17difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our systems implementations and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations. Such disruption and any other information technology system disruptions, and our ability to mitigate those disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on us.Our effective income tax rate or the amount of our required tax payments could increase and materially adversely affect our business.We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions and pay tax on our income according to the tax laws of these jurisdictions. Various factors, some of which are beyond our control, determine our effective tax rate and/or the amount of tax we are required to pay, including changes in or interpretations of tax laws in any given jurisdiction, our ability to use net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards and other tax attributes, changes in geographical allocation of income and expense, and our judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets. Changes to our effective tax rate and/or the amount of tax we are required to pay could materially adversely affect our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.Exposure to additional income tax liabilities due to audits could materially adversely affect our business.Due to our size and the nature of our business, we are subject to ongoing reviews by taxing jurisdictions on various tax matters, including challenges to various positions we assert on our income tax and withholding tax returns. We accrue income tax liabilities and tax contingencies based upon our best estimate of the taxes ultimately expected to be paid after considering our knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances, existing tax laws, our experience with previous audits and settlements, the status of current tax examinations and how the tax authorities view certain issues. Such amounts are included in taxes payable or other non-current liabilities, as appropriate, and updated over time as more information becomes available. We record additional tax expense in the period in which we determine that the recorded tax liability is less than the ultimate assessment we expect. We are currently subject to audit and review in a number of jurisdictions in which we operate, and further audits may commence in the future.We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards.We have net operating loss carryforwards and other significant U.S. tax attributes that we believe could offset otherwise taxable income in the United States. The net operating loss carryforwards available in any year to offset our net taxable income will be reduced following a more than 50% change in ownership during any period of 36 consecutive months (an “ownership change”) as determined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”). Our certificate of incorporation prohibits and voids certain transfers of our common stock in order to reduce the risk that an ownership change will jeopardize our net operating loss carryforwards. Because U.S. tax law limits the time during which carryforwards may be applied against future taxes, we may not be able to take full advantage of the carryforwards for federal income tax purposes. In addition, federal and state tax laws pertaining to net operating loss carryforwards may be changed from time to time such that the net operating loss carryforwards may be reduced or eliminated. If the net operating loss carryforwards become unavailable to us or are fully utilized, our future income will not be shielded from federal and state income taxation, and the funds otherwise available for general corporate purposes would be reduced.Transfer restrictions and other factors could hinder the market for our common stock.In order to reduce the risk that an ownership change would jeopardize the preservation of our U.S. federal income tax attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards, for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, our certificate of incorporation includes restrictions on transfers involving 5% ownership. These transfer restrictions may make our stock less attractive to large institutional holders, discourage potential acquirers from attempting to take over our company, limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and otherwise hinder the market for our common stock.We could engage in or approve transactions involving our common shares that inadvertently impair the use of our federal income tax attributes.Section 382 of the Code affects our ability to use our federal income tax attributes, including our net operating loss carryforwards, following a more than 50% change in ownership during any period of 36 consecutive months, an ownership change, as determined under the Code. Certain transactions may be included in the calculation of an ownership change, including transactions involving our repurchase or issuance of our common shares. When we engage in or approve any transaction involving our common shares that may be included in the calculation of an ownership change, our practice is to first perform the calculations necessary to confirm that our ability to use our federal income tax attributes will not be affected. These calculations are complex and reflect certain necessary assumptions. Accordingly, it is possible that we could approve or engage in a transaction involving our common shares that causes an ownership change and inadvertently impairs the use of our federal income tax attributes. 18We could engage in or approve transactions involving our common shares that adversely affect significant stockholders.Under the transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, our 5% stockholders are, in effect, required to seek the approval of, or a determination by, our Board of Directors before they engage in transactions involving our common stock. We could engage in or approve transactions involving our common stock that limit our ability to approve future transactions involving our common stock by our 5% stockholders in accordance with the transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation without impairing the use of our federal income tax attributes. In addition, we could engage in or approve transactions involving our common stock that cause stockholders owning less than 5% to become 5% stockholders, resulting in those stockholders’ having to seek the approval of, or a determination by, our Board of Directors under our certificate of incorporation before they could engage in future transactions involving our common stock. For example, share repurchases reduce the number of our common shares outstanding and could cause a stockholder holding less than 5% to become a 5% stockholder even though it has not acquired any additional shares.We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2013, we cannot assure you that we will not have a material weakness in the future. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting that meets the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may be subject to increase in insurance costs, we may not have access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected.Our results may fail to meet investor expectations and the trading price of our stock may decline due to a variety of factors beyond our control.Our financial and operating results may be significantly below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and the price of our common stock may decline due to the factors beyond our control, including, among others:•volatility in the spot market for primary aluminum and energy costs;•cyclical aspects impacting demand for our products;•changes in the volume, price and mix of the products we sell;•non-cash charges including last-in, first-out, or “LIFO”, inventory charges and impairments, lower of cost or market valuation adjustments to inventory, mark-to-market gains and losses related to our derivative transactions and impairments of fixed assets and intangible assets;•unanticipated interruptions of our operations, including variations in the maintenance needs for our facilities;•unanticipated changes in our labor relations; and•U.S. and global economic conditions.Our annual variable payment obligations to two voluntary employees beneficiary associations ("VEBAs") are linked with our profitability, which means that not all of our earnings will be available to our stockholders.We are obligated to make annual payments to the VEBAs that provide benefits for certain eligible retirees and their spouses and eligible dependents calculated in part on our profitability, and therefore, not all of our earnings will be available to our stockholders. The aggregate amount of our annual payments to the VEBAs is capped at $20 million in the aggregate and is subject to other limitations. As a result of these variable payment obligations, our cash flows may be reduced. Our obligation to the VEBA that provides benefits for eligible retirees represented by certain unions and their surviving spouse and eligible dependents (the “Union VEBA”) terminates on September 30, 2017 and is capped at $17.1 million. In the future, groups representing our current and future retired hourly employees, or the Union VEBA itself, may seek to extend our obligation to the Union VEBA beyond the current termination date. Any such extension could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our obligation to the VEBA that provides benefits for certain other eligible retirees, their surviving spouse and eligible dependents (the "Salaried VEBA") has no express termination date and is capped at $2.9 million. 19The ownership of our stock is concentrated, with a few owners who may, individually or collectively, exert significant influence over us. Certain investment funds, advisers and organizations own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013. As a result, any of them could have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of our Board of Directors. Further, to the extent that the substantial stockholders were to act in concert, they could potentially control any action taken by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs, mergers or other purchases of our common stock that might otherwise give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock or cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot assure you that the interests of our major stockholders will not conflict with our interests or the interests of our other investors.The USW has director nomination rights through which it may influence us, and USW interests may not align with our interests or the interests of our stockholders, debt holders and other stakeholders.Pursuant to agreements between us and the USW, the USW has the right to nominate candidates which, if elected, would constitute 40% of our Board of Directors through September 30, 2015, at which time the USW is required to cause any director nominated by the USW to submit his or her resignation to our Board of Directors, which submission our Board of Directors may accept or reject in its discretion. As a result, the directors nominated by the USW have a significant voice in the decisions of our Board of Directors. It is possible that the USW may seek to extend the term of the agreement and its right to nominate board members beyond 2015.Payment of dividends may not continue in the future, and our payment of dividends and stock repurchases are subject to restriction.Our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend for each quarter since the summer of 2007. In addition, our Board of Directors has authorized a stock repurchase program. The future declaration and payment of dividends and the ongoing purchase of our shares, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our financial and operating results, financial position, and anticipated cash requirements. We can give no assurance that dividends will be declared and paid or that dividends will not be reduced in the future. Additionally, our revolving credit facility and the indenture for our Senior Notes restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common shares.Our certificate of incorporation includes transfer restrictions that may void transactions in our common stock effected by 5% stockholders.Our certificate of incorporation restricts the transfer of our equity securities if either (1) the transferor holds 5% or more of the fair market value of all of our issued and outstanding equity securities or (2) as a result of the transfer, either any person would become such a 5% stockholder or the percentage stock ownership of any such 5% stockholder would be increased. These restrictions are subject to exceptions set forth in our certificate of incorporation. Any transfer that violates these restrictions is void and will be unwound as provided in our certificate of incorporation.Delaware law and our governing documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage a change of control of our company or deter tender offers for our common stock. We are currently subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. These anti-takeover provisions impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Additionally, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of unissued shares of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. As a result, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of common stock. Our certificate of incorporation also divides our Board of Directors into three classes of directors who serve for staggered terms. A significant effect of a classified Board of Directors may be to deter hostile takeover attempts because an acquirer could experience delays in replacing a majority of directors. Moreover, stockholders are not permitted to call a special meeting. Our certificate of incorporation restricts certain transactions in our common stock involving 5% stockholders or parties who would become 5% stockholders as a result of the transaction. The general effect of these transfer restrictions, which were put in place to reduce the risk that an ownership change would jeopardize the preservation of our U.S. federal income tax attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards, is to ensure that a change in ownership of more than 45% of our outstanding common stock cannot occur in any three-year period without the consent of our Board of Directors. These rights and provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company and may limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 20Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 