D. Risk Factors The securities of Quartz are highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. A prospective investor or other person reviewing Quartz for a prospective investor should not consider an investment in Quartz unless the investor is capable of sustaining an economic loss of the investment. No Assurance That A Prospective Property Of Merit Will Be Identified. There is no assurance that a prospective property of merit will be identified, will be available if identified or that the Company will be able to enter into an acquisition agreement. Further, any acquisition will most likely be subject to the Company obtaining additional financing, of which there is no assurance. Even if a property is acquired, further funds will be required to fund exploration and development efforts. The Company’s Mineral Property Interests Contain No Known Ore. The Company does not currently have an active exploration project, but is searching for a new acquisition. The Company holds a 1% net smelter return royalty (“NSR”) on the Quartz Mountain Property, an exploration stage prospect in Oregon. The Company’s interest in the property will be limited to any future NSR that would be forthcoming if or when any mining commences on the property. There is currently no known body of commercially viable ore on the property. Extensive additional exploration work will be required to ascertain if any mineralization may be economic. Exploration for minerals is a speculative venture necessarily involving substantial risk. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Company on any of its mineral properties will result in discoveries of commercial quantities of ore. The Company Has No History of Earnings and No Foreseeable Earnings. The Company has no history of earnings and, due to the nature of its business, there can be no assurance that the Company will ever be profitable. The Company has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation and does not anticipate paying dividends or being profitable in the foreseeable future. Going Concern Assumption. The Company’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue on a going concern basis. However, unless additional funding is obtained, this assumption will have to change. The Company has incurred losses since inception (deficit at July 31, 2006 was approximately $20.17 million), which casts substantial doubt on the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. General Mining Risks. If the Company should ever determine ore exists on a property it acquires, then it notes that the mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a profitable market may exist for the sale of minerals produced by the Company. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. Mineral prices, in particular gold and silver prices, have fluctuated widely in recent years. The marketability of minerals is also affected by numerous other factors beyond the control of the Company. These other factors include government regulations relating to price, royalties, and allowable - 7 - production and importing and exporting of minerals. The operations of the Company may require licences and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licences and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development and eventually operations at its projects. The mineral industry is intensely competitive in all its phases. The Company competes with many companies possessing far greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral concessions, claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. The Company’s Share Price is Volatile. The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a junior resource issuer like the Company, is affected by many variables not directly related to the exploration success of the Company, including the market in which it is traded, the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the stock. On February 17, 2005, the Company transferred its listing from Tier 2 of the TSX Venture Exchange to NEX. NEX is a separate board of TSX Venture Exchange, established in August 2003 to provide a new trading forum for listed companies that have fallen below the TSX Venture Exchange’s ongoing listing standards due to low levels of business activity or having ceased to carry on active business. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the common shares on the NEX suggests that the Company’s shares will continue to be volatile. The ability of the Company to reactivate itself as a Tier 2 Issuer on the TSX Venture Exchange is dependent on its ability to acquire a mineral project for active exploration. The Company’s Directors and Officers are Part-Time and Serve as Directors and Officers of Other Companies. All of the directors and officers of the Company serve as officers and/or directors of other resource exploration companies and are engaged in and will continue to be engaged in the search for additional resource opportunities on their own behalf and on behalf of other companies. Situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with the Company. Such conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of British Columbia corporate and common law. In order to avoid the possible conflict of interest which may arise between the directors’ duties to the Company and their duties to the other companies on whose boards they serve, the directors and officers of the Company expect that participation in exploration prospects offered to the directors will be allocated between the various companies that they serve on the basis of prudent business judgement and on the relative financial abilities and needs of the companies to participate. The success of the Company and its ability to continue to carry on operations is dependent upon its ability to retain the services of certain key employees and members of its board of directors. Foreign Jurisdiction Risks. The Company’s activities could be subject not only to risks common to operations in the mining industry, but also the political and economic uncertainties of operating in a foreign jurisdiction. All laws may result in risk such as possible misinterpretation of laws, unilateral modification of mining or exploration rights, operating restrictions, increased taxes, environmental regulation, mine safety and other risks arising out of sovereignty over mining, any or all of which could have an adverse impact upon the Company. The Company’s operations may also be affected in varying degrees by political and economic instability, terrorism, crime, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates and inflation. The Company’s operations and exploration activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations governing protection of the environment. These laws are continually changing and, as a general matter, are becoming more restrictive. Likely PFIC Status Has Consequences for United States Investors. Potential investors who are United States (“U.S.”) taxpayers should be aware that the Company expects to be classified for U.S. tax purposes as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for the current fiscal year, and may also have been a PFIC in prior and may also be a PFIC in subsequent years. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period, then such U.S. taxpayer generally will be required to treat any so-called “excess distribution” received on its common shares, or any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, as ordinary income and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such distribution or gain, unless the taxpayer makes a qualified electing fund (“QEF”) election or a mark-to-market election with respect to the shares of the Company. In certain circumstances, the sum of the tax and the interest charge may exceed the amount of the excess distribution received, or the amount of proceeds of disposition realized, by the taxpayer. A U.S. taxpayer who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. A U.S. taxpayer who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s tax basis therein. See also Item 10E – Passive Foreign Investment Company. Shares of the Company may be Affected Adversely by Penny Stock Rules. The Company’s stock may be subject to U.S. “penny stock” rules which may make the stock more difficult to trade on the open market. The Company’s common shares currently trade on the NEX Board of the TSX Venture Exchange. For further details on the market performance of the - 8 - Company’s common stock, see “Item 9 The Offer and Listing.” Although the Company’s common stock trades on the NEX, the Company’s stock may be subject to U.S. “penny stock rules” adopted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) pursuant to section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The penny stock rules apply generally to companies whose common stock trades at less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain limited exemptions. Such rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade “penny stock” to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of the Company’s common stock, because they limit the broker/dealers’ ability to trade, and a purchaser’s ability to sell, the stock in the secondary market. Many brokers have decided not to trade “penny stock” because of the requirements of the "penny stock rules" and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. Further, it is more difficult for a company whose securities are subject to these rules to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services, such as the Dow Jones News Service, generally do not publish press releases about such companies. The low price of the Company’s common stock also has a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of the Company’s common stock also limits the Company’s ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of certain institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker’s commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, the Company’s shareholders pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if the Company’s share price were substantially higher. The rules described above concerning penny stocks may adversely affect the market liquidity of the Company’s common shares. The Company can provide no assurances concerning the market liquidity of its stock or that its stock will not be subject to “penny stock” rules. - 9 - 