Item 1A. Risk Factors I. The Company is subject to interest rate risk, which could negatively impact earnings. Net interest income is the Company's most significant component of earnings. The Company's net interest income results from the difference between the yields the Company earns on its interest-earning assets, primarily loans and investments, and the rates that the Company pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, primarily deposits and borrowings. When interest rates change, the yields the Company earns on its interest-earning assets and the rates the Company pays on its interest-bearing liabilities do not necessarily move in tandem with each other because of the difference between their maturities and repricing characteristics. This mismatch can negatively impact net interest income if the margin between yields earned and rates paid narrows. Interest rate environment changes can occur at any time and are affected by many factors that are outside the control of the Company, including inflation, recession, unemployment trends, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. As of December 31, 2005, interest rates in general have been steadily increasing for the past 18 months. During that period, the Company's interest-earning asset yields have increased by approximately the same amount as the Company's interest-bearing liability rates. However, our net interest income has benefited from the fact that the Company's interest-earnings assets generally reprice sooner upon a change in interest rates than do the Company's interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, if interest rates do not change in 2006, the Company will likely have more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets that will reprice at higher rates. This will likely negatively impact the Company's net interest income. If interest rates were to decrease in 2006, the negative impact to the Company's net interest margin would be exacerbated as a result of the Company's interest-earning assets repricing downwards faster and by a greater amount than the Company's interest bearing liabilities. Growth that the Company expects to generate in loans and deposits would be expected to increase net interest income, and thus would lessen the negative impact of compressing spreads in a "no change" or declining interest rate environment. 12 II. The Company faces strong competition, which could hurt the Company's business. The Company's business operations are centered primarily in North Carolina, southwestern Virginia and northeastern South Carolina. Increased competition within this region may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, the Company may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that the Company offers. These competitors include savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, internet banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. The Company competes in its market areas with several large interstate bank holding companies, including three of the largest in the nation that are headquartered in North Carolina. These large competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company, including broader geographic markets, more banking locations, higher lending limits and the ability to make greater use of large-scale advertising and promotions. Also, these institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than the Company, may be able to offer the same products and services that the Company offers at more competitive rates and prices. The Company also competes in some of its market areas with many banks that have been organized within the past ten years. These new banks often focus on loan and deposit balance sheet growth, and not necessarily on earnings profitability. This strategy often allows them to offer more attractive terms on loans and deposits than the Company is able to offer because the Company must achieve an acceptable level of profitability. Moore County, which comprises a disproportionate share of the Company's deposits, is a particularly competitive market, with at least ten other financial institutions having a physical presence, including large interstate bank holding companies and recently organized banks. III. The Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses caused by customer loan defaults. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and in this case additional and larger provisions for loan losses would be required to replenish the allowance. Provisions for loan losses are a direct charge against income. The level of the allowance for loan losses set by the Company is dependent on the use of historical loss rates, as well as estimates and assumptions of future events. Because of the extensive use of estimates and assumptions, there is the possibility that they could be wrong and that the Company's actual loan losses could differ (and possibly significantly) from the Company's estimate. The Company believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate to provide for probable losses, but it is possible that the allowance for loan losses will need to be increased for credit reasons or that regulators will require the Company to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company's earnings and profitability. IV. The Company is vulnerable to the economic conditions within the fairly small geographic region in which it operates. Like most businesses, the Company's overall success is partially dependent on the economic conditions in the marketplace where it operates. The Company's marketplace is concentrated in the central Piedmont region of North Carolina and is therefore not particularly diversified. An economic downturn in this fairly small geographic region that negatively impacted the Company's customers would likely also have an adverse impact on the Company. For example, an economic downturn may result in higher loan default rates and reduce the value of real estate securing those loans, which would likely increase the Company's loan losses. At December 31, 2005, approximately 86% of the Company's loans were secured by real estate collateral, and thus the 13 Company could be adversely impacted if real estate values decreased. V. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, which could have an adverse effect. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision from the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. This regulation and supervision is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund and the Company's depositors and borrowers, and not for holders of the Company's common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of the Company's assets and determination of the level of the allowance for loan losses. Changes in the regulations that apply to the Company, or changes in the Company's compliance with regulations, could have a material impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 