Item 1A. Risk Factors This Item may contain statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See Item 1. “Business — Forward Looking Statements” for cautionary information with respect to such forward-looking statements. Such cautionary information should be read as applying to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Report. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary from those in forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors including those we discuss in this Item and elsewhere in this Report. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. The occurrence of any of the events discussed below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as well as the trading price of our common stock. A reader may not be able to compare our historical financial information to our financial information relating to periods after our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy. As a result of the effectiveness of our chapter 11 plan of reorganization, our Plan, on July 6, 2006, we are operating our business under a new capital structure. In addition, we adopted fresh start reporting in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, or SOP 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code as of July 1, 2006. Because SOP 90-7 requires us to account for our assets and liabilities at their fair values as of the effectiveness of our Plan, our financial condition and results of operations from and after July 1, 2006 are not comparable in some material respects to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements at dates or for periods prior to July 1, 2006. We operate in a highly competitive industry which could adversely affect our profitability. The fabricated products segment of the aluminum industry is highly competitive. Competition in the sale of fabricated aluminum products is based upon quality, availability, price and service, including delivery performance. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we do, and 11 may have other strategic advantages, including more efficient technologies or lower raw material costs. Our facilities are primarily located in North America. To the extent that our competitors have production facilities located outside North America, they may be able to produce similar products at a lower cost. We may not be able to adequately reduce costs to compete with these products. Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Recent economic factors. Over recent months, several banks and other financial institutions have announced multi-billion dollar write-downs related to their exposure to mortgage-backed securities and other financial instruments. This, along with other factors, has led to a tightening in the credit markets for certain borrowers. In addition, oil prices have hit unprecedented high levels and are having a negative impact on air carriers around the world. Further, there is uncertainty over the general direction of the U.S. economy. Although certain markets we serve, including aerospace and defense, remain strong, the impact of the high price of oil or a downturn in the U.S. or global economy could result in a decrease in demand for our products, cause our customers to fail to meet contractual commitments and have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on a core group of significant customers. In 2007, our largest fabricated products customer, Reliance, accounted for approximately 15% of our fabricated products net sales, and our five largest customers accounted for approximately 36% of our fabricated products net sales. If our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated and we are not successful in replacing lost business, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a significant downturn in the business or financial condition of any of our significant customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is very sensitive to foreign economic, regulatory and political factors that may adversely affect our business. We import primary aluminum from, and manufacture fabricated products used in, foreign countries. We also own 49% of Anglesey. We purchase alumina to supply to Anglesey and we purchase aluminum from Anglesey for sale to a third party in the United Kingdom. Factors in the politically and economically diverse countries in which we operate or have customers or suppliers, including inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected by: • acts of war or terrorism or the threat of war or terrorism; • government regulation in the countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials; • the implementation of controls on imports, exports or prices; • the adoption of new forms of taxation and duties; • the imposition of currency restrictions; • the nationalization or appropriation of rights or other assets; and • trade disputes involving countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials. The aerospace industry is cyclical and downturns in the aerospace industry, including downturns resulting from acts of terrorism, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from products sold to the aerospace industry, which is highly cyclical and tends to decline in response to overall declines in industrial production. As a result, our business is affected by overall levels of industrial production and fluctuations in the aerospace industry. The commercial 12 aerospace industry is historically driven by the demand from commercial airlines for new aircraft. Demand for commercial aircraft is influenced by airline industry profitability, trends in airline passenger traffic, by the state of the U.S. and world economies and numerous other factors, including the effects of terrorism. The military aerospace cycle is highly dependent on U.S. and foreign government funding; however, it is also driven by the effects of terrorism, a changing global political environment, U.S. foreign policy, regulatory changes, the retirement of older aircraft and technological improvements to new aircraft engines that increase reliability. The timing, duration and severity of cyclical upturns and downturns cannot be predicted with certainty. A future downturn or reduction in demand could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, because we and other suppliers are expanding production capacity, heat treat plate prices may eventually begin to decrease as production capacity increases or demand decreases. Although we have implemented cost reduction and sales growth initiatives to minimize the impact on our results of operations, as heat treat plate prices return to more typical historical levels, these initiatives may not be adequate and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Similarly, additional delays in the ramp up of production of new commercial aircraft programs could substantially reduce near-term demand for certain of our products. A reduction in anticipated demand could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A number of major airlines have also recently undergone chapter 11 bankruptcy and continue to experience financial strain from high fuel prices. Continued financial instability in the industry may lead to reduced demand for new aircraft that utilize our products, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The aerospace industry suffered significantly in the wake of the events of September 11, 2001, resulting in a sharp decrease globally in new commercial aircraft deliveries and order cancellations or deferrals by the major airlines. This decrease reduced the demand for our Aero/HS products. While there has been a recovery since 2001, the threat of terrorism and fears of future terrorist acts could negatively affect the aerospace industry and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our customers may reduce their demand for aluminum products in favor of alternative materials. Our fabricated aluminum products compete with products made from other materials, such as steel and composites, for various applications. For instance, the commercial aerospace industry has used and continues to evaluate the further use of alternative materials to aluminum, such as composites, in order to reduce the weight and increase the fuel efficiency of aircraft. The willingness of customers to accept substitutions for aluminum or the ability of large customers to exert leverage in the marketplace to reduce the pricing for fabricated aluminum products could adversely affect the demand for our products, particularly our aerospace and high strength products, and thus adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further downturns in the automotive industry could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. The demand for many of our general engineering and custom products is dependent on the production of automobiles, light trucks and heavy duty vehicles in North America. The automotive industry is highly cyclical, as new vehicle demand is dependent on consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the North American economy. The North American automotive industry is facing costly inventory corrections which could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. Multiple production cuts by heavy duty truck and major United States automobile manufacturers in recent years may continue to adversely affect the demand for our products. The North American automotive manufacturers are also burdened with substantial structural costs, including pension and healthcare costs that impact their profitability and labor relations. If the financial condition of these auto manufacturers continues to be unsteady or if any of these automobile manufacturers seek restructuring or relief through bankruptcy proceedings, the demand for our products may decline, adversely affecting our net sales and profitability. Similarly, any decline in the demand for new automobiles, particularly in the United States, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Seasonality experienced by the automotive industry in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year also affects our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Changes in consumer demand may adversely affect our operations which supply automotive end users. Recent and any future increases in energy costs that consumers incur is resulting in shifts in consumer demand away from motor vehicles that typically have a higher content of the products we currently supply, such as light trucks and SUVs. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully negotiate pricing terms with our automotive customers. Cost cutting initiatives that our automotive customers have adopted generally result in increased downward pressure on pricing and our automotive customers typically seek agreements requiring reductions in pricing over the period of production. Pricing pressure may increase further, particularly in North America, as North American manufacturers pursue cost cutting initiatives. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset any required price reductions our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Because our products are often components of our customers’ products, reductions in demand for our products may be more severe than, and may occur prior to reductions in demand for, our customers’ products. Our products are often components of the end-products of our customers. Customers purchasing our fabricated aluminum products, such as those in the cyclical automotive and aerospace industries, generally require significant lead time in the production of their own products. Therefore, demand for our products may increase prior to demand for our customers’ products. Conversely, demand for our products may decrease as our customers anticipate a downturn in their respective businesses. As demand for our customers’ products begins to soften, our customers typically reduce or eliminate their demand for our products and meet the reduced demand for their products using their own inventory without replenishing that inventory, which results in a reduction in demand for our products that is greater than the reduction in demand for their products. This amplified reduction in demand for our products in the event of a downswing in our customers’ respective businesses (de-stocking) may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions which may adversely affect our performance. The production of aluminum and fabricated aluminum products is subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, transportation interruptions and supply interruptions. Operational interruptions at one or more of our production facilities, particularly interruptions at our Trentwood facility in Spokane, Washington where our production of plate and sheet is concentrated, could cause substantial losses in our production capacity. Furthermore, because customers may be dependent on planned deliveries from us, customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our delivery delays may be able to pursue financial claims against us, and we may incur costs to correct such problems in addition to any liability resulting from such claims. Such interruptions may also harm our reputation among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by such events. Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. Our revolving credit facility contains negative and financial covenants and events of default that may limit our financial flexibility and ability to undertake certain types of transactions. For instance, we are subject to negative covenants that restrict our activities, including restrictions on creating liens, engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, incurring indebtedness, providing guaranties, engaging in different businesses, making loans and investments, making certain dividends, debt and other restricted payments, making certain prepayments of indebtedness, engaging in certain transactions with affiliates and entering into certain restrictive agreements. If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in our revolving credit facility or another event of default occurs under the 14 revolving credit facility, we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs. If we cannot borrow under the revolving credit facility to meet our working capital needs, we could be required to seek additional financing, if available, or curtail our operations. Additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If the revolving credit facility is terminated and we do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay any amounts due, we could be required to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. We depend on our subsidiaries for cash to meet our obligations and pay any dividends. We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders depend upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of dividends, tax sharing payments or otherwise. Our subsidiaries’ ability to provide funding will depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness (including the revolving credit facility), tax considerations and legal restrictions. We may not be able to successfully implement our productivity and cost reduction initiatives. We have undertaken and expect to continue to undertake productivity and cost reduction initiatives to improve performance, including deployment of company-wide business improvement methodologies, such as our production system, the Kaiser Production System, which involves the integrated utilization of application and advanced process engineering and business improvement methodologies such as Lean Enterprise, Total Productive Maintenance and Six Sigma. We cannot assure you that all of these initiatives will be completed or beneficial to us or that any estimated cost saving from such activities will be fully realized. Even when we are able to generate new efficiencies successfully in the short to medium term, we may not be able to continue to reduce cost and increase productivity over the long term. Our profitability could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials and freight. The price of primary aluminum has historically been subject to significant cyclical price fluctuations, and the timing of changes in the market price of aluminum is largely unpredictable. Although our pricing of fabricated aluminum products is generally intended to pass the risk of price fluctuations on to our customers, we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of such increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of higher costs for other raw materials, which may cause our profitability to decline. There will also be a potential time lag between increases in prices for raw materials under our purchase contracts and the point when we can implement a corresponding increase in price under our sales contracts with our customers. As a result, we may be exposed to fluctuations in raw material prices, including aluminum, since, during the time lag, we may have to bear the additional cost of the price increase under our purchase contracts. If these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, we are party to arrangements based on fixed prices so that we bear the entire risk of rising aluminum prices, which may cause our profitability to decline. In addition, an increase in raw material prices may cause some of our customers to substitute other materials for our products, adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to both a decrease in the sales of fabricated aluminum products and a decrease in demand for the primary aluminum produced at Anglesey. We are responsible for selling and delivering alumina to Anglesey in proportion to our ownership percentage at a predetermined price. Such alumina is purchased under contracts that extends through August 2009 at prices tied to primary aluminum prices. In addition we delivered the alumina to Anglesey under the terms of a freight contract that expired at the end of 2007. Current freight rates are substantially higher than rates under the former contract. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure a source of alumina at comparable process for the period after August of 2009. If we are unable to do so or freight rates do not improve, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows associated with our Primarily Aluminum business segment may be adversely affected. The price volatility of energy costs may adversely affect our profitability. Our income and cash flows depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including energy costs) at which we are able to sell our fabricated aluminum products. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, 15 and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our production facilities affect operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. The daily closing price of the front-month futures contract for natural gas per million British thermal units as reported on NYMEX ranged between $5.38 and $8.64 in 2007, $4.20 and $10.63 in 2006 and $5.79 and $15.38 in 2005. Typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices which increases our exposure to energy costs. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our hedging programs may limit the income and cash flows we would otherwise expect to receive if our hedging program were not in place. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we may enter into hedging transactions to limit our exposure to price risks relating to primary aluminum prices, energy prices and foreign currency. To the extent that these hedging transactions fix prices or exchange rates and the prices for primary aluminum exceed the fixed or ceiling prices established by these hedging transactions or energy costs or foreign exchange rates are below the fixed prices, our income and cash flows will be lower than they otherwise would have been. Additionally, to the extent that primary aluminum prices, energy prices and/or foreign currency exchange rates deviate materially and adversely from fixed or ceiling prices or rates established by outstanding hedging transactions, we could incur margin calls which could adversely impact our liquidity. The expiration of the power agreement for Anglesey may adversely affect our cash flows and affect our hedging programs. The agreement under which Anglesey receives power expires in September 2009, and the nuclear facility which supplies such power is scheduled to cease operations in 2010. As of the date of this Report, Anglesey has not identified a source from which to obtain sufficient power to sustain its operations on reasonably acceptable terms after the expiration of the current agreement in September 2009, and we cannot assure you that Anglesey will be able to do so. If, as a result, Anglesey’s aluminum reduction is curtailed or its costs are increased, our cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, any decrease in Anglesey’s production would reduce or eliminate the “natural hedge” against rising primary aluminum prices created by our participation in the primary aluminum market and, accordingly, we may deem it appropriate to increase our hedging activity to limit exposure to such price risks, potentially adversely affecting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If Anglesey cannot obtain sufficient power on acceptable terms, Anglesey’s aluminum reduction operations will likely be shut down. Given the potential for future shut down and related costs, Anglesey temporarily suspended dividends during the last half of 2006 and the first half of 2007 while it studied future cash requirements. Based on a review of cash anticipated to be available for future cash requirements, Anglesey removed the temporary suspension of dividends and declared dividends in August 2007 and November 2007. The shut down may involve significant costs to Anglesey which could decrease or eliminate its ability to pay dividends. The process of shutting down aluminum reduction operations may involve transition complications which may prevent Anglesey from operating its aluminum reduction operations at full capacity until the expiration of the power contract. As a result, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected even before the September 2009 expiration of the power contract. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, as well as inflation and other economic factors in the countries in which we operate. Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates in the countries in which we operate, could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. In particular, lower valuation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, Euro and British Pound Sterling, may affect our profitability as some important raw materials are purchased in other currencies, while products generally are sold in U.S. dollars. 16 Our ability to keep key management and other personnel in place and our ability to attract management and other personnel may affect our performance. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially and adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully or develop marketable products. Our production costs may increase and we may not sustain our sales and earnings if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. A significant number of our employees are represented by labor unions under labor contracts with varying durations and expiration dates. All of these contracts currently expire in 2009 and 2010, including labor contracts with the USW covering four of our manufacturing locations and approximately 1,055, or 41%, of our employees scheduled to expire in the Fall of 2010. We may not be able to renegotiate these or our other labor contracts on satisfactory terms when they expire. As part of any such renegotiation, we may reach agreements with respect to future wages and benefits that could materially and adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, such negotiations could divert management attention or result in union-initiated work actions, including strikes or work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, the existence of labor agreements may not prevent such union-initiated work actions. Our business is regulated by a wide variety of health and safety laws and regulations and compliance may be costly and may adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are regulated by a wide variety of health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be costly and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, these laws and regulations are subject to change at any time, and we can give you no assurance as to the effect that any such changes would have on our operations or the amount that we would have to spend to comply with such laws and regulations as so changed. Environmental compliance, clean up and damage claims may decrease our cash flow and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations with respect to, among other things: air and water emissions and discharges; the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the release of hazardous or toxic substances, pollutants and contaminants into the environment. Compliance with these environmental laws is and will continue to be costly. Our operations, including our operations conducted prior to our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy, have subjected, and may in the future subject, us to fines or penalties for alleged breaches of environmental laws and to obligations to perform investigations or clean up of the environment. We may also be subject to claims from governmental authorities or third parties related to alleged injuries to the environment, human health or natural resources, including claims with respect to waste disposal sites, the clean up of sites currently or formerly used by us or exposure of individuals to hazardous materials. Any investigation, clean-up or other remediation costs, fines or penalties, or costs to resolve third-party claims may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have accrued, and will accrue, for costs relating to the above matters that are reasonably expected to be incurred based on available information. However, it is possible that actual costs may differ, perhaps significantly, from the amounts expected or accrued, and such differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may occur, and we cannot assure you as to the amount that we would have to spend to comply with such new or amended laws and regulations or the effects that they would have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Other legal proceedings or investigations or changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to the matters described above, we may from time to time be involved in, or be the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including matters related to personal injury, employees, taxes and contracts, as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. It could be costly to defend against these claims or any investigations involving them, whether meritorious or not, and legal proceedings and investigations could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources, negatively affecting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. It could also be costly to make payments on account of any such claims. Additionally, as with the environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject, the other laws and regulations which govern our business are subject to change at any time, and we cannot assure you as to the amount that we would have to spend to comply with such laws and regulations as so changed or otherwise as to the effect that any such changes would have on our operations. Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively affect our reputation and could adversely affect our results of operations. We are sometimes exposed to warranty and product liability claims. We cannot assure you that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from such claims in the future. We generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks but we cannot assure you that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, we cannot assure you that insurance will continue to be available to us on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our Trentwood expansion and rod, bar, and tube investment projects may not be completed as scheduled. We are currently in the process of a $139 million expansion of production capacity and gauge capability at our Trentwood facility which includes the final $34 million follow-on investment announced in June 2007. While the first two phases were successfully completed at December 31, 2007, our ability to complete the final phase of this project, and the timing and costs of doing so, are subject to various risks associated with all major construction projects, many of which are beyond our control, including technical or mechanical problems. If completion of the final phase is significantly delayed or interupts production, we may lose production or be unable to meet shipping deadlines on time or at all, which would adversely affect our results of operations, may lead to litigation and may damage our relationships with these customers and our reputation generally. In the third quarter of 2007 we announced a $91 million investment in our rod, bar, and tube value stream including the development of a production facility expected to be in Kalamazoo, Michigan. If we are unable to fully complete these projects or if the actual costs for these projects exceed our current expectations, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions. A component of our growth strategy is to acquire fabricated products assets in order to complement our product portfolio. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets, obtain financing to fund acquisitions and support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: • diversion of management’s time and attention from our existing business; • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; • difficulties integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; 18 • liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; • greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; • difficulties achieving anticipated operational improvements; • incurrence of indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and • issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interests of existing stockholders. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have concluded that at December 31, 2007 we have no material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting we cannot assure you that we will not have a material weakness in the future. A “material weakness” is a control deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting that meets the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or by the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may not have access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected. We may not be able to adequately protect proprietary rights to our technology. Our success will depend in part upon our proprietary technology and processes. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures, these measures may not be adequate to protect such intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may offer significantly less intellectual property protection than is offered by the laws of the United States. In addition, any attempts to enforce our intellectual property rights, even if successful, could result in costly and prolonged litigation, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property may adversely affect our results of operations as our competitors would be able to utilize such property without having had to incur the costs of developing it, thus potentially reducing our relative profitability. Furthermore, we may be subject to claims that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of another. Even if without merit, those claims could result in costly and prolonged litigation, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our income and cash flows. In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements in order to continue using technology that is important to our business. However, we may be unable to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms, which could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carry-forwards. We have net operating loss carry-forwards and other significant U.S. tax attributes that we believe could offset otherwise taxable income in the United States. At December 31, 2007, these tax attributes could together offset $897.5 million of otherwise taxable income. The amount of net operating loss carry-forwards available in any year to offset our net taxable income will be reduced or eliminated if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”). Upon our emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy, we entered into a stock transfer restriction agreement with our largest stockholder, a VEBA that provides benefits for certain eligible 19 retirees represented by certain unions and their spouses and eligible dependents (which we refer to as the Union VEBA), and our certificate of incorporation was amended to prohibit and void certain transfers of our common stock. Both reduce the risk that an ownership change will jeopardize our net operating loss carry-forwards. Because U.S. tax law limits the time during which carry-forwards may be applied against future taxes, we may not be able to take full advantage of the carry-forwards for federal income tax purposes. In addition, the tax laws pertaining to net operating loss carry-forwards may be changed from time to time such that the net operating loss carry-forwards may be reduced or eliminated. If the net operating loss carry-forwards become unavailable to us or are fully utilized, our future income will not be shielded from federal income taxation, thereby reducing funds otherwise available for general corporate purposes. Transfer restrictions and other factors could hinder the market for our common stock. In order to reduce the risk that any change in our ownership would jeopardize the preservation of our U.S. federal income tax attributes, including net operating loss carry-forwards, for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, upon emergence from chapter 11 bankruptcy, we entered into a stock transfer restriction agreement with our largest stockholder, the Union VEBA, and amended and restated our certificate of incorporation to include restrictions on transfers involving 5% ownership. These transfer restrictions could hinder the market for our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial analysts in their estimates of our future earnings, substantial amounts of our common stock being sold into the public markets upon the expiration of share transfer restrictions, which expire in July 2016, or upon the occurrence of certain events relating to U.S. tax benefits available under section 382 of the Code, conditions in the economy or stock market in general or in the fabricated aluminum products industry in particular or unfavorable publicity. We may not be able to engage in or approve certain transactions involving our common shares without impairing the use our federal income tax attributes. Section 382 of the Code affects our ability to use our federal income tax attributes, including our net operating loss carry-forwards, following a more than 50% change in ownership during any period of 36 consecutive months, all as determined under the Code, an “ownership change”. Certain transactions may be included in the calculation of an ownership change, including transactions involving our repurchase of our common shares, our issuance of new common shares, the sale of additional common shares by the Union VEBA, any person or group of persons becoming a 5% holder of our common shares and any 5% holder increasing the number of common shares held. Transactions included in the calculation of an ownership change may limit our ability to engage in or approve additional transactions during the balance of the applicable 36 month period without affecting our ability to use our federal income tax attributes. The limitation on our inability to engage in or approve additional transactions may adversely impact the market for our common shares and our ability to pursue certain transactions, including the repurchase of our common shares or to raise capital in the equity markets and/or to issue new common shares to pursue external growth opportunities. Our net sales, operating results and profitability may vary from period to period, which may lead to volatility in the trading price of our stock. Our financial and operating results may be significantly below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and the price of our common stock may decline due to the following factors: • volatility in the spot market for primary aluminum and energy costs; • changes in the volume, price and mix of the products we sell; • our annual accruals for variable payment obligations to the Union VEBA and another VEBA that provides benefits for certain other eligible retirees and their surviving spouses and eligible dependents (which we refer to as the Salaried VEBA); • non-cash charges including last-in, first-out, or LIFO, inventory charges and impairments; 20 • global economic conditions; • unanticipated interruptions of our operations for any reason; • variations in the maintenance needs for our facilities; • unanticipated changes in our labor relations; • cyclical aspects impacting demand for our products; and • reductions in defense spending. Our annual variable payment obligations to the Union VEBA and Salaried VEBA are linked with our profitability, which means that not all of our earnings will be available to our stockholders. We are obligated to make annual payments to the Union VEBA and Salaried VEBA calculated based on our profitability and therefore not all of our earnings will be available to our stockholders. The aggregate amount of our annual payments to these VEBAs is capped however at $20 million and is subject to other limitations. As a result of these payment obligations, our earnings and cash flows may be reduced. Although our obligation to make annual payments to the Union VEBA terminates for periods beginning after December 31, 2012, the Union VEBA or other groups representing our current and future retired hourly employees may seek to extend our obligation beyond the termination date. Any such extension could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A significant percentage of our stock is held by the Union VEBA which may exert significant influence over us. The Union VEBA owns 23.5% of our common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result, the Union VEBA has significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of our Board of Directors. Further, to the extent that the Union VEBA and other substantial stockholders were to act in concert, they could potentially control any action taken by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs, mergers or other purchases of our common stock that might otherwise give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock or cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot assure you that the interests of our major stockholders will not conflict with our interests or the interests of our other investors. The USW has director nomination rights through which it may influence us, and USW interests may not align with our interests or the interests of our other investors. Pursuant to an agreement, the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, or USW, has been granted rights to nominate candidates which, if elected, would constitute 40% of our Board of Directors through December 31, 2012 at which time the USW is required to cause any director nominated by the USW to submit his or her resignation to our Board of Directors, which submission our Board of Directors may accept or reject in its discretion. As a result, the directors nominated by the USW may have a significant voice in the decisions of our Board of Directors. It is possible that the USW may seek to extend the term of the agreement and its right to nominate board members beyond 2012 and continue its ability to have a significant voice in the decisions of our Board of Directors. Payment of dividends may not continue in the future and our payment of dividends and stock repurchases are subject to restriction. In June 2007, our Board of Directors initiated the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per common share per quarter. A quarterly cash dividend has been paid in each subsequent quarter. Future declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors. We can give no assurance that any dividends will be declared and paid in the future. Our revolving credit facility currently restricts our ability to pay any dividends or purchase any of our stock. Under our revolving credit facility, we may pay cash 21 dividends only if we are not in default or would not be in default as a result of the dividends, and are limited to an amount based on a portion of cumulative earnings, net of dividends, as adjusted for certain other cash inflows. Our certificate of incorporation includes transfer restrictions that may void transactions in our common stock effected by 5% stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation places restrictions on transfer of our equity securities if either (1) the transferor holds 5% or more of the fair market value of all of our issued and outstanding equity securities or (2) as a result of the transfer, either any person would become such a 5% stockholder or the percentage stock ownership of any such 5% stockholder would be increased. These restrictions are subject to exceptions set forth in our certificate of incorporation. Any transfer that violates these restrictions will be unwound as provided in our certificate of incorporation. Moreover, as indicated below, these provisions may make our stock less attractive to large institutional holders, and may also discourage potential acquirers from attempting to take over our company. As a result, these transfer restrictions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company and may limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Delaware law, our governing documents and the stock transfer restriction agreement we entered into as part of our Plan may impede or discourage a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and the stock transfer restriction agreement with the Union VEBA may have the effect of discouraging a change of control of our company or deterring tender offers for our common stock. We are currently subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. These anti-takeover provisions impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Additionally, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect some corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of unissued shares of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of common stock. Our certificate of incorporation also divides our Board of Directors into three classes of directors who serve for staggered terms. A significant effect of a classified board of directors may be to deter hostile takeover attempts because an acquirer could experience delays in replacing a majority of directors. Moreover, stockholders are not permitted to call a special meeting. As indicated above, our certificate of incorporation prohibits certain transactions in our common stock involving 5% stockholders or parties who would become 5% stockholders as a result of the transaction. In addition, we are party to a stock transfer restriction agreement with the Union VEBA which limits its ability to transfer our common stock. The general effect of the transfer restrictions in the stock transfer restriction agreement and our certificate of incorporation is to ensure that a change in ownership of more than 45% of our outstanding common stock cannot occur in any three-year period. These rights and provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company and may limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 