D. RISK FACTORS Due to the nature of the Company's business and the present stage of exploration and development of its projects in British Columbia, an investment in the securities of Quartz Mountain is highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. Briefly, these include the highly speculative nature of the resources industry, characterized by the requirement for large capital investments from an early stage and a very small probability of finding economic mineral deposits. In addition to the general risks of mining, there are country-specific risks, including currency, political, social, permitting and legal risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that Quartz Mountain furnishes to, or files with, the Securities and Exchange Commission and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in Quartz Mountain's common shares. You should not consider an investment in Quartz Mountain unless you are capable of sustaining the economic loss of your entire investment. Going concern assumption The Company's consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue on a going concern basis. However, unless additional funding is obtained, this assumption will have to change. The Company has incurred losses since inception. Failure to continue as a going concern would require that Quartz Mountain's assets and liabilities be restated on a liquidation basis, which could differ significantly from the going concern basis. Additional Funding Requirements At July 31, 2014, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $1.0 million and a working capital deficit of $2.6 million. Further corporate activities and development of the Company's properties will require additional capital. The Company currently does not have sufficient funds to fully develop the properties it holds. In addition, a positive production decision at these properties or any other development projects acquired in the future would require significant capital for project engineering and construction. Accordingly, the continuing development of the Company's properties will depend upon the Company's ability to obtain funding through debt or equity financings, the joint venturing of projects, or other means. It is possible that the financing required by the Company will not be available, or, if available, will not be available on acceptable terms. If the Company issues treasury shares to finance its operations or expansion plans, control of the Company may change and shareholders may suffer dilution of their investment. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to take advantage of opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures and remain in business. In addition, a positive production decision at any of the Company’s current projects or any other development projects acquired in the future would require significant resources/funding for project engineering and construction. Accordingly, the continuing development of the Company’s properties will depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain financing through debt financing, equity financing, the joint venturing of projects, or other means. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing for these or other purposes, including for general working capital. 10 Market for Securities and Volatility of Share Price There can be no assurance that active trading market in the Company's securities will be established or sustained. The market price for the Company's securities is subject to wide fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of exploration results, as well as market conditions in the industry or the economy as a whole, may have a significant adverse impact on the market price of the securities of the Company. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Exploration, Development and Mining Risks Resource exploration, development, and operations are highly speculative, characterized by a number of significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not reduce, including among other things, unsuccessful efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Unusual or unexpected formations, formation pressures, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor are other risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration programs. The Company will rely upon consultants and others for exploration, development, construction and operating expertise. Substantial expenditures are required to establish mineral resources and mineral reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metal from mineral resources, and in the case of new properties, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. No assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. Whether a mineral deposit will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, some of which are: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which are highly cyclical; and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot accurately be predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The Company will carefully evaluate the political and economic environment in considering any properties for acquisition. Future Profits/Losses and Production Revenues/Expenses The Company has no history of operations or earnings, and expects that its losses and negative cash flow will continue for the foreseeable future. The Company currently has a limited number of mineral properties and there can be no assurance that the Company will, if needed, be able to acquire additional properties of sufficient technical merit to represent a compelling investment opportunity. If the Company is unable to acquire additional properties, its entire prospects will rest solely with its current projects and accordingly, the risk of being unable to identify a mineral deposit will be higher than if the Company had additional properties to explore. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever be profitable in the future. The Company's operating expenses and capital expenditures may increase in subsequent years as needed consultants, personnel and equipment associated with advancing exploration, development and commercial production of its current properties and any other properties that the Company may acquire are added. The amounts and timing of expenditures will depend on the progress of on-going exploration and development, the results of consultants' analyses and recommendations, the rate at which operating losses are incurred, the execution of any joint venture agreements with strategic partners, and the Company's acquisition of additional properties and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. The Company does not expect to receive revenues from operations in the foreseeable future, and will incur losses unless and until such time as its current properties, or any other properties the Company may acquire commence commercial production and generate sufficient revenues to fund its continuing operations. The development of the Company’s current properties and any other properties the Company may acquire will require the commitment of substantial resources to conduct the time-consuming exploration and development of properties. The Company anticipates that it will retain any cash resources and potential future earnings for the future operation and development of the Company's business. 11 The Company has not paid dividends since incorporation and the Company does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Company will generate any revenues or achieve profitability. There can be no assurance that the underlying assumed levels of expenses will prove to be accurate. To the extent that such expenses do not result in the creation of appropriate revenues, the Company's business may be materially adversely affected. It is not possible to forecast how the business of the Company will develop. Permits and Licenses The operations of the Company will require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits which may be required to carry out exploration and development of the Company's projects. Infrastructure Risk The operations of the Company are carried out in geographical areas which may lack adequate infrastructure and are subject to various other risk factors. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend, to one degree or another, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, bridges, power sources and water supply are important determinants which affect capital and operating costs. Lack of such infrastructure or unusual or infrequent weather phenomena, government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could adversely affect the Company's operations, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Local Legislation or Regulation The Company's mining and processing operations and exploration activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, exploration, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine and worker safety, protection of endangered and other special status species and other matters. The Company's ability to obtain permits and approvals and to successfully operate in particular communities may be adversely impacted by real or perceived detrimental events associated with the Company's activities or those of other mining companies affecting the environment, human health and safety of the surrounding communities. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain government permits and approvals may adversely affect the Company's operations, including its ability to explore or develop properties, commence production or continue operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation of permits and other penalties. The costs and delays associated with compliance with these laws, regulations and permits could prevent the Company from proceeding with the development of a project or the operation or further development of a mine or increase the costs of development or production and may materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. The Company may also be held responsible for the costs of addressing contamination at the site of current or former activities or at third party sites. The Company could also be held liable for exposure to hazardous substances. Land Claims In Canada, aboriginal interests, rights (including treaty rights), claims and title may exist notwithstanding that they may be unregistered or overlap with other tenures and interests granted to third parties. Generally speaking, the scope and content of such rights are not well defined and may be the subject of litigation or negotiation with the government. The government has a legal obligation to consult First Nations on proposed activities that may have an impact on asserted or proven aboriginal interests, claims, rights or title. All of the mineral claims in the Company’s projects are identified by the Province of British Columbia as overlapping with areas in which certain aboriginal groups have asserted aboriginal interests, rights, claims or, title. Nevertheless, potential overlaps between the Company’s properties and existing or asserted aboriginal interests, rights, claims or, title, or undefined rights under historic treaties may exist notwithstanding whether the Province of British Columbia has identified such interests, rights, claims, title or undefined rights under historic treaties. 12 Groups Opposed to Mining May Interfere with the Company's Efforts to Explore and Develop its Properties Organizations opposed to mining may be active in the regions in which the Company conducts its exploration activities. Although the Company intends to comply with all environmental laws and maintain good relations with local communities, there is still the possibility that those opposed to mining will attempt to interfere with the development of the Company's properties. Such interference could have an impact on the Company's ability to explore and develop its properties in a manner that is most efficient or appropriate, or at all, and any such impact could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and the results of its operations. Environmental Matters All of the Company's operations are and will be subject to environmental laws and regulations, which can make operations expensive or prohibit them altogether. The Company may be subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste products that could occur as a result of its mineral exploration, development and production. In addition, environmental hazards may exist on a property in which the Company directly or indirectly holds an interest, which are unknown to the Company at present and have been caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the Company’s projects. Environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with certain mining industry operations which would result in environmental pollution. A breach of such legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, or the requirement to remedy environmental pollution, which would reduce funds otherwise available to the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the Company. If the Company is unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, it could be required to suspend operations or undertake interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. There is no assurance that future changes in environmental regulation, if any, will not adversely affect the Company’s operations. There is also a risk that the environmental laws and regulations may become more onerous, making the Company's operations more expensive. Many of the environmental laws and regulations applicable to the Company’s operations will require the Company to obtain permits for its activities. The Company will be required to update and review its permits from time to time, and may be subject to environmental impact analyses and public review processes prior to approval of the additional activities. It is possible that future changes in applicable laws, regulations and permits or changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could have a significant impact on some portion of the Company's business, causing those activities to be economically re-evaluated at that time. Conflicts of Interest The Company's directors and officers may serve as directors or officers of other companies, joint venture partners, or companies providing services to the Company or they may have significant shareholdings in other companies. Situations may arise where the directors and/or officers of the Company may be in competition with the Company. Any conflicts of interest will be subject to and governed by the law applicable to directors' and officers' conflicts of interest. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the Company's directors, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In accordance with applicable laws, the directors of the Company are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. Lack of Revenue and a History of Operating Losses The Company does not have any operational history or earnings and the Company has incurred net losses and negative cash flow from its operations since its incorporation. Although the management of the Company hopes to eventually generate revenues, significant operating losses are to be anticipated for at least the next several years and possibly longer. To the extent that such expenses do not result in the creation of appropriate revenues, the Company's business may be materially adversely affected. It is not possible to forecast how the business of the Company will develop. General Economic Conditions Global financial markets have experienced a sharp increase in volatility during the last few years. Market conditions and unexpected volatility or illiquidity in financial markets may adversely affect the prospects of the Company and the value of the Company's shares. 13 Reliance on Key Personnel The Company is dependent on the continued services of its senior management team, and its ability to retain other key personnel. The loss of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that any of the Company's employees will remain with the Company or that, in the future, the employees will not organize competitive businesses or accept employment with companies competitive with the Company. Furthermore, as part of the Company's growth strategy, it must continue to hire highly qualified individuals. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract, train or retain qualified personnel in the future, which would adversely affect its business. Competition The resources industry is highly competitive in all its phases, and the Company will compete with other mining companies, many of which have greater financial, technical and other resources. Competition in the mining industry is primarily for: attractive mineral rich properties capable of being developed and producing economically; the technical expertise to find, develop and operate such properties; the labour to operate the properties; and the capital for the purpose of funding such properties. Many competitors not only explore for and mine certain minerals, but also conduct production and marketing operations on a worldwide basis. Such competition may result in the Company being unable to acquire desired properties, to recruit or retain qualified employees or to acquire the capital necessary to fund its operations and develop its properties. The Company's inability to compete with other mining companies for these resources could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and its business. Uninsurable Risks In the course of exploration, development and production of mineral properties, certain risks, and in particular, unexpected or unusual geological operating conditions including rock bursts, cave ins, fires, flooding and earthquakes may occur. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks and the Company may decide not to take out insurance against such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Property Title The acquisition of title to resource properties is a very detailed and time-consuming process. Title to, and the area of, resource claims may be disputed. Although the Company believes it has taken reasonable measures to ensure that title to the mineral claims comprising its projects are held as described, there is no guarantee that title to any of those claims will not be challenged or impaired. There may be valid challenges to the title of any of the mineral claims comprising the Company’s projects that, if successful, could impair development or operations or both. The mineral property underlying the Company's net smelter return royalty interest contains no known ore. The Company holds a 1% net smelter return ("NSR") royalty interest on the Quartz Mountain Property (recently renamed "Angel's Camp"), an exploration stage prospect in Oregon. The Company's interest in the property will be limited to any future NSR that would be forthcoming only if or when any mining commences on the property. There is currently no known body of ore on the property. Extensive additional exploration work will be required to ascertain if any mineralization may be economic. Likely PFIC status has consequences for United States investors Potential investors who are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that the Company expects to be classified for U.S. tax purposes as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for the current fiscal year, and may also have been a PFIC in prior years and may also be a PFIC in future years. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. taxpayer's holding period, then such U.S. taxpayer generally will be required to treat any so-called "excess distribution" on its common shares, or any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, as ordinary income which would be taxed at the shareholder's highest marginal rates and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such distribution or gain, unless the taxpayer has made a timely qualified electing fund ("QEF") election or a mark-to-market election with respect to the shares of the Company. In certain circumstances, the sum of the tax and the interest charge may exceed the amount of the excess distribution received, or the amount of proceeds of disposition realized, by the taxpayer. A U.S. taxpayer who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company's net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. A U.S. taxpayer who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer's tax basis therein. See also Item 10E – "Passive Foreign Investment Company". 14 Potential investors should also note that recently enacted legislation may require U.S. shareholders to report their interest in a PFIC on an annual basis. US shareholders of the Company should consult their tax advisors as to these reporting requirements as well as the consequences of investing in the Company. Penny stock classification Penny stock classification could affect the marketability of the Company's common stock and shareholders could find it difficult to sell their stock The penny stock rules in the United States require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. Further, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These additional broker-dealer practice and disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the Company's common shares in the U.S., and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. 