ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business We compete with many other entertainment alternatives and are subject to factors that generally affect the recreation and leisure industry. Our parks compete with other amusement, water and theme parks and with other types of recreational activities and forms of entertainment, including movies, sports events, restaurants and vacation travel. Our business is also subject to factors that generally affect the recreation and leisure industries and are not within our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, general economic conditions and changes in consumer tastes and spending habits. Difficult regional economic conditions can adversely impact attendance figures and guest spending patterns at our parks, and disproportionately affect different segments of our target customers within our core markets. Both attendance and guest per capita spending at our parks are key drivers of our revenues and profitability, and reductions in either can directly and negatively affect revenues and profitability. Bad or extreme weather conditions can adversely impact attendance at our parks, which in turn would reduce our revenues. Because most of the attractions at our parks are outdoors, attendance at our parks can be adversely affected by continuous bad or extreme weather and also can be adversely affected by forecasts of bad or mixed weather conditions. The operating season at most of our parks is of limited duration, which can magnify the impact of adverse conditions or events occurring within that operating season. Ten of our amusement parks are seasonal, generally operating during a portion of April or May, then daily from Memorial Day through Labor Day, and during weekends in September and, in most cases, October. Our water parks also operate seasonally, generally from Memorial Day through Labor Day and during some additional weekends before and after that period. Most of our revenues are generated during this 130 to 140-day annual operating season. As a result, when conditions or events described as risk factors occur during the operating season, particularly during the peak months of July and August or the important Fall season, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect upon our revenues. Unanticipated construction delays in completing capital improvement projects in our parks and resort facilities can adversely affect our revenues. A principal competitive factor for an amusement park is the uniqueness and perceived quality of its rides and attractions in a particular market area. Accordingly, the regular addition of new rides and attractions is important, and a key element of our revenue growth is strategic capital spending on new rides and attractions. Any construction delays or ride down-time can adversely affect our attendance and our ability to realize revenue growth. There is a risk of accidents occurring at amusement parks, which may reduce attendance and negatively impact our revenues. All of our amusement parks feature thrill rides. Although we are safety conscious, there are inherent risks involved with these attractions, and an accident or a serious injury at any of our amusement parks may reduce attendance and result in decreased revenues. In addition, accidents or injuries at parks operated by our competitors may influence the general attitudes of amusement park patrons and adversely affect attendance at our amusement parks. The terms of our debt agreements could, under certain circumstances, impose limitations upon our activities. The agreement governing our term debt and our revolving credit facilities includes covenants that under some circumstances could limit, among other things, our ability to: incur additional debt; pay distributions to our unitholders; create liens; make certain investments; consolidate or transfer assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. 9 Our debt agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain other financial tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our debt agreement. If an event of default occurs, our lenders could elect to cause our outstanding debt to become immediately due and payable, requiring it to be refinanced under market conditions at that time. The debt we incurred to finance the acquisition of Paramount Parks, Inc. (PPI) could limit our earnings and cash available for distributions if we do not achieve anticipated savings from integration and increased cash flows. Our ability to service our debt and maintain our distributions depends in part upon achieving anticipated results from the acquisition of the Paramount Parks. If the acquisition of the Paramount Parks does not generate the anticipated savings from integration, or the acquired parks do not generate the anticipated cash flows from operations, then the debt we put in place to finance the acquisition could limit our earnings and cash available for distribution. Rising interest rates could adversely affect the market price of our Units, which in turn may limit our ability to raise capital for future expansion or acquisitions. As a result of our historically strong cash flow and the increasing cash distributions to our unitholders since our initial public offering in 1987, we believe that investors value our Units based on their yield. In the event of a rise in the prevailing interest rates for similar securities or in general, our Units may be perceived to become less attractive and the market price of our Units may be affected. This in turn could limit our ability to use our Units to raise capital for future expansion or acquisitions. If we lose key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon a number of key employees, including our senior management team, whose members have been involved in the amusement park industry for an average of more than 20 years. The loss of the services of our key employees could have a materially adverse effect on our business. With the exception of four executive officers, we do not have employment agreements with our key employees. Other factors, including local events, natural disasters and terrorist activities, can adversely impact park attendance and our revenues. Lower attendance may result from various local events, natural disasters or terrorist activities, all of which are outside of our control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 