ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our prospects. Recent changes in our senior management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management and our board of directors. On September 25, 2006, Jerry W. Levin was appointed our interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman (following the departure of Richard J. Thalheimer) and on November 8, 2006 our former President and Chief Operating Officer and our former Chief Financial Officer resigned. We appointed Steven A. Lightman as our President and Chief Executive Officer, effective as of April 9, 2007. On May 11, 2007, we announced that Rebecca L. Roedell would assume the position of Chief Financial Officer after the filing of this Annual Report. These changes in our management may be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, vendors, rating agencies, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. Moreover, our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire and retain key management personnel going forward, particularly personnel engaged in merchandising, store, catalog and internet operations. If we are unable to identify and retain effective permanent replacements for our key executives, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are currently substantially revising our business strategy, and the success of our business will depend on our ability to effectively develop and implement a new strategic plan. We are substantially revising our business strategy. Although we have identified a number of key initiatives, objectives, innovations and goals, we have not yet committed to a comprehensive definitive strategy. In connection with the development and implementation of a new business strategy, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional expenses, including, among others, investments in new product and advertising and marketing efforts, expenses in connection with the engagement of consultants, legal expenses, and expenses associated with discontinuing underperforming products and closing underperforming stores and severance costs. The development of our strategy also requires management to divert a portion of their time from day-to-day operations. These expenses and diversions could have a significant impact on our operations and profitability, particularly if the initiatives included in any new business strategy prove to be unsuccessful. Moreover, if we are unable to develop a strategy in a timely manner, or if our strategy turns out to be ineffective or is executed improperly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to offer new and frequently updated merchandise that our customers find attractive, the demand for our products may be limited. In order to remain successful, we must offer our customers exciting, innovative and high quality products on a continuous basis. Our product offerings must be affordable, useful to the customer, well-made, distinctive in design and not widely available from other retailers. We cannot predict with certainty that we will successfully offer products that meet these requirements. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences we may not be able to accurately anticipate and which may change between sales seasons. The U.S. retail industry and e-commerce sector are dynamic in nature and have undergone significant changes over the past several years. Our ability to anticipate and successfully respond to changing consumer preferences is important to our long-term growth and we cannot assure you that we will be able to predict and effectively accommodate changes in the retail industry and e-commerce sectors. If we misjudge our customers’ purchasing habits, our sales may decline, our inventories may increase or we may be required to sell our products at lower prices; in each case, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. We experience intense competition in the rapidly changing retail market and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to achieve profitability in the near term. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with a variety of department stores, sporting goods stores, mass merchants, discount stores, specialty retailers, internet retailers, and catalog retailers that offer products similar to or the same as our products. We compete principally on the basis of the innovative and first to market nature of our products, product exclusivity, selection, brand recognition, quality and price of our products, the effectiveness of our catalog, store and Internet marketing efforts and our merchandise selection. Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial resources, a wider selection of merchandise and greater inventory availability, and offer the convenience of one-stop shopping. Specialty retailers, such as electronics stores, may offer only certain categories of products but often offer a wider range of selection within those categories. Discount stores may offer similar products at lower price points. If other retailers, especially department stores or discount retailers, offer the same or similar products to those we sell, or if our products become less popular with our customers, our sales may decline. Similarly, if we are unable to anticipate the preferences of our customers and effectively market and distinguish the Sharper Image brand, our ability to remain competitive may be compromised. Increasing competition may also subject us to pricing pressures which may reduce our profitability. In any such case, our failure to compete effectively would adversely affect our business and operating results. A significant portion of our sales during any given period of time may be generated by a particular product or line of products and if sales of those products or lines of products decrease, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Historically, certain of our products or a group of related products have generated sales volumes that are significant to our total sales volume. Since fiscal 2002, the sales of our air purification line of products have constituted a significant portion of our revenues and net income. Beginning in 2005, sales of this line of products have declined significantly which has adversely affected our sales and earnings. We expect the sales of this line of products to decline in the foreseeable future which may adversely affect our future profitability. In addition, certain other product categories, including massage chairs and electronics, have been significant to our results of operations and may in the future continue to be significant. We believe that particular products or lines of products will, for the foreseeable future, continue to constitute a significant portion of our sales and, accordingly, our future growth and profitability will be substantially dependent on the continued success of particular products or a line of products. We cannot predict whether we will be able to increase or maintain sales of these products or product lines, and failure to do so would adversely affect our business and operating results. We are dependent on the success of our advertising efforts, and our profitability may be adversely affected by increased costs associated with these efforts. Our revenues depend in substantial part on our ability to effectively advertise and market our products through a variety of advertising channels, including The Sharper Image catalog, direct marketing operations, television infomercials, radio, targeted emails and other media. Increases in advertising and marketing costs, including as a result of increases in paper and postage costs, may limit our ability to advertise without reducing our profitability. Effective May 14, 2007, the U.S. Postal Service increased by approximately 20-25% the mailing rates applicable to the catalogs we distribute which will adversely affect our catalog expenses. We are in the process of reviewing our catalog operations to improve the effectiveness of our catalog mailings and are unable to determine the effect this rate increase will have on our marketing expense. If we are forced to decrease our advertising and marketing efforts due to these increased mailing costs, increased advertising costs or for any other reason, or if our advertising is ineffective, our future sales may be adversely affected. We expect to continue to spend on advertising and marketing at significant levels; however, if such expenditures do not produce a sufficient level of sales to cover such expenditures, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We rely on our catalog operations, which could experience significant cost increases and could have unpredictable results. Our success depends in part on the success of our catalog operations. We believe that the success of our catalog operations depends on our ability to: • achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • continue to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to our mail order customers; • cost-effectively add new customers; • cost-effectively design, produce and deliver appealing catalogs; and • timely deliver catalog mailings to our customers. Catalog production and mailings entail substantial paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs, including costs associated with catalog development and increased inventories. We incur nearly all of these costs prior to the mailing of each catalog. As a result, we are not able to adjust the costs being incurred in connection with a particular mailing to reflect the actual performance of the catalog. Increases in costs of mailing, paper or printing would increase our advertising and marketing expenses and would adversely affect our earnings if we were unable to increase sales, pass these increases directly on to our customers by raising prices or offset these increases by implementing more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. If we were to experience a significant shortfall in anticipated revenue from a particular mailing and not recover the costs associated with that mailing, our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, response rates to our mailings and, as a result, revenues generated by each mailing, are affected by factors such as consumer preferences, economic conditions, the timing and mix of catalog mailings, the timely delivery by the postal system of our catalog mailings and changes in our merchandise mix, several or all of which factors may be outside our control. We have historically experienced fluctuations in the response rates to our catalog mailings. If we are unable to accurately target the appropriate segment of the consumer catalog market or to achieve adequate response rates, we could experience lower sales, significant markdowns or write-offs of inventory and lower margins, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. We generate a significant portion of our sales on the internet and if we fail to attract customers to our website, or customers do not purchase on our website, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. For fiscal 2006 and 2005 we had net sales through our website of $85.2 million and $107.2 million, respectively, representing 16.2% of our total revenues in fiscal 2006 and 16.0% in fiscal 2005. We believe the sales and profitability of our website operations depends on the merchandise available for sale on the website, the appearance of the website, its ease of use, and the costs of attracting customers and designing and maintaining our website. If we are unable to attract customers to our website or we attract customers to our website but they fail to purchase merchandise because they do not like the selection of merchandise, the website is too difficult to use or for other reasons, or if we are unable to design or operate our website with acceptable costs, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Poor economic conditions may reduce consumer spending on discretionary retail products such as those we offer. Consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary spending for products such as those we offer, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, stock market volatility, increasing gas prices, threats of war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, wage rates, interest rates, inflation, taxation, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. Accordingly, general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, may adversely affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to deliver our products to meet consumer demand in a timely manner, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. The success of our business is substantially dependent on our ability to meet the demands of our customers for our merchandise on a timely basis. In order to do so, we must, among other things, maintain sufficient inventory levels, particularly during the peak holiday selling season. If we fail to deliver our products to customers to meet demand, including if we are unable to maintain sufficient levels of inventory at key times, our results may be adversely affected. At the same time, if we overestimate consumer demand, we may end up with excess inventories or may be required to sell our products at lower prices, in each case, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to deliver quality products that perform as described, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to provide our customers with dependable and reliable products that perform as we describe them to our customers. If we fail to sell products with such characteristics, our sales may decline, our returns may increase and our warranty and other expenses may also increase. Any one of these factors may adversely affect our results. We are subject to a number of risks as a result of our reliance on foreign sources of production for our proprietary designed products. We must ensure that the products we design and develop are manufactured in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a select group of third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in Asia (primarily China), to produce these products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand and deliver these products in a timely manner. These arrangements are subject to the risks of relying on products manufactured outside the United States, including political unrest, trade restrictions, customs and tariffs, local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards, currency fluctuations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, work stoppages or slowdowns and other labor issues, economic uncertainties including inflation and government regulations, availability and costs of raw materials, potentially adverse tax consequences and other uncertainties. China, in particular, has in recent years experienced rapid social, political and economic change, and further changes may adversely affect our ability to procure our products from Chinese suppliers. Our ability to obtain goods on a cost effective basis is also subject to our ability to maintain relationships with our suppliers, and our ability to negotiate and maintain supply arrangements on favorable terms. There is increasing political pressure on China to permit the exchange rate of its currency, the Chinese Yuan (“CNY”), to float against the U.S. Dollar (“USD”). Although substantially all of our supply contracts in China are denominated in USD, our suppliers could attempt to renegotiate these contracts and increase costs to us if the CNY/USD exchange rate were to change in a manner adverse to the USD. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with a substantial portion of our principal suppliers and, accordingly, we are subject to the risk of unexpected changes in pricing or supply from these suppliers. We may also be unable to develop beneficial relationships with new vendors in the future. For a number of our products, including our air purification products, we use a single supplier located in Asia that provided approximately 15.8% and 19.1% of our net merchandise purchases in fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect this supplier will continue to provide a comparable percentage in the future. If we were unable to obtain products from this supplier on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, our operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, some of our smaller vendors have limited resources, limited production capacities and limited operating histories. We have a limited number of long-term purchase contracts or other contracts that provide continued supply and fixed pricing and other terms, and as a result a substantial portion of our vendors could discontinue selling to us at any time or discontinue selling to us on current pricing or other terms. In addition, we may compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. As a result of the risks described above, among others, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of our products from our suppliers on acceptable terms. In such case, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. We do not control our third-party suppliers. Accordingly, vendors may violate laws, including labor laws, or may engage in business or labor practices that would generally be regarded as unethical in the U.S. In such case, our brand image could be significantly impaired, our supply of products may be interrupted and we may terminate our relationships with such suppliers, any of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology (particularly the technology used in our air purification products), is uncertain and could cause us to incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights; if we are unable to protect such rights, our competitive advantage could be impaired. We believe our registered trademarks “The Sharper Image”, “sharperimage.com” and “Sharper Image”, as well as the trademark awareness that we have established, are of significant value. We actively pursue and protect, domestically and internationally, not only our trademarks, but other intellectual property rights including patents, copyrights and trade secrets to ensure that the quality of our brand and the value of our proprietary rights are maintained. We protect our proprietary 11 Table of Contents marketing strategies, illustrative catalogs and product packaging through copyright registrations. We also seek patents to establish and protect our proprietary rights relating to the technologies and products we have developed, are in the process of developing, or that we may develop in the future. We believe we have taken, and will seek to continue to take, all steps necessary to broaden and enhance our patent protection by obtaining both utility and design patent protection directed to our proprietary products. We cannot assure you that a third party will not infringe upon or design around any patent issued or licensed to us, including the patents and license agreements related to our air purification line of products, or that these patents will otherwise be commercially viable. Litigation to establish the validity of patents, to defend against claims of others alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark or other proprietary rights and to assert such claims against others can be expensive and time-consuming even if the outcome is favorable to us. If the outcome is unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay damages, stop production and sales of infringing products or be subject to increased competition from similar products. We have taken, and may take, steps to enhance the protection of our intellectual property, but we cannot assure you that these steps will be successful or that, if unsuccessful, our protection will be adequate. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect our proprietary technology in large part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and contractors. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that competitors will not know of or independently discover our trade secrets. We face risks arising from the outcome of various litigation matters. We are involved in various litigation matters, including those arising in the ordinary course of business and those described under the caption “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report. Among these matters is litigation associated with purported class actions relating to the Ionic Breeze line of air purification products. An adverse outcome in one or more of these matters may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In January 2007 we entered into a settlement agreement which has been preliminarily approved by the court, related to the Florida class action which also enjoined the Ionic Breeze proceedings. A hearing on the fairness of the settlement is expected to occur in August 2007. There can be no assurance that the court will provide final approval to this settlement agreement. Further, litigation can consume substantial financial and management resources. In November 2006, a plaintiff commenced a purported stockholders’ derivative action relating to our historical option grant practices in the State Court of California (San Francisco), naming as defendants certain of our current and former officers and directors. We are also named as a nominal defendant. The plaintiff alleges that she is one of our stockholders and seeks to recover, on our behalf, damages we incurred by, among other things, improper option grants. The plaintiff also seeks equitable relief, including corporate governance reforms. The case is in the initial stages of procedure and a response to the recently filed amended complaint is due on June 1, 2007. On October 13, 2006, our board of directors received a letter from another alleged shareholder who asserted that he would commence a shareholders’ derivative action if our board of directors failed to cause us to commence action against current and former directors and members of management relating to our historical options practices. We believe we have responded, and continue to respond, appropriately to the conduct related to our historical option grant practices. Our management’s time and attention could be diverted from focusing on our operations and we could incur significant legal expense as a result of these suits. In addition, we may be subject to additional litigation relating to our historical stock option practices and there is no assurance that regulatory inquiries or other actions will not be commenced by U.S. federal or state regulatory agencies. Such actions could similarly divert management time and attention and result in significant legal expense, and there can be no assurance that such matters would be resolved favorably. We have a recent history of substantial losses, and if we are unable to improve our performance or maintain profitability, we may need to find additional sources of liquidity to meet our cash requirements. We incurred a net loss for fiscal 2006 and 2005. If we continue to incur substantial losses we may require additional debt financing or require equity financing to fund our operating requirements in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in improving our performance or, if we are able to do so, that we would be able to maintain profitability, including as a result of the factors described herein. On May 25, 2007, we amended our revolving secured credit facility with Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC. The amended facility expires on May 25, 2012 and allows borrowings and letters of credit up to a maximum of $120 million, with $85 million available from January through July, $100 million available in August and September and $120 million available from October through December. Borrowings outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at the LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.00% or at Wells Fargo’s prime rate plus a margin ranging from 0% to 0.25%, depending on the amount outstanding. Borrowings under the credit facility are secured by our inventory, accounts receivable and specified other assets. 12 Table of Contents In addition, on May 25, 2007, Wells Fargo executed a letter of commitment to provide us with a term loan in an amount up to $20 million equal to 25% of the appraised value of, and secured by substantially all of, our intellectual property, including trademarks. The commitment letter is subject to negotiation of mutually acceptable pricing and maturity terms and definitive agreements, an acceptable appraisal of the value of our intellectual property and other customary conditions, including that there has been no material adverse change in our business, and there can be no assurance that the term loan will ultimately become available or as to the appraised value of our intellectual property. If we require additional funding to meet our cash flow needs, we may be required to seek to obtain such funding through, among other things, additional loans or the issuance of debt or equity securities. However, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and seasonality. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales and earnings for the retail industry during the holiday shopping season. Typically, a substantial portion of our total revenues and all or most of our net earnings occur during our fourth quarter, which ends on January 31. The fourth quarter accounted for approximately 39.0% of total revenues in fiscal 2006 and 39.4% and 39.3% in fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. In addition, the fourth quarter accounted for substantially all of our net earnings in 2004 and was the only quarter in which we had an operating profit in 2005. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter, we incur significant additional expenses, including significantly higher inventory costs and the costs of hiring a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our regular store staff, and borrow substantial amounts under our credit facility to finance these costs. If our sales were to be substantially below those normally expected during the fourth quarter, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Due to this seasonality, our operating results for any one period may not be indicative of our operating results for the full fiscal year. We generally experience lower revenues and net operating results during our first three quarters of the fiscal year and have historically experienced losses in these quarters. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including, among other things, the timing of new store openings, net sales contributed by new stores, increases or decreases in comparable store sales, changes in our merchandise mix, the timing and amount of advertising and marketing expenditures and catalog sales. In addition, like other retailers, we typically make merchandising and purchasing decisions well in advance of the holiday shopping season. As a result, poor economic conditions or differences from projected customer demand for our products during the fourth quarter could result in lower revenues and earnings. Our comparable store sales are subject to significant fluctuations. Our comparable store sales fluctuate significantly, which can lead to unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results. Comparable store sales are defined as sales from stores where selling square feet did not change by more than 15% in the previous 12 months and which have been open for at least 12 full months. Our comparable store sales are affected by a variety of factors, including customer demand in different geographic regions, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our product mix, competition and timing and the amount of advertising and marketing expenditures. In addition, we have a wholesale business and have a licensing program whereby Sharper Image branded products are sold through other retailers, and the impact of selling our proprietary designed and Sharper Image branded products through an increased number of other selected retailers may adversely affect our comparable store sales. Our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past and we believe that such fluctuations may continue. Our historical comparable net store sales changes from the prior fiscal year were as follows: Fiscal year Percentage increase (decrease) 2000 29.0 2001 (16.0 ) 2002 13.6 2003 15.3 2004 (1.1 ) 2005 (16.0 ) 2006 (25.4 ) 13 Table of Contents Any reduction in or failure to increase our comparable store sales results would adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, our stock price may be affected by fluctuations in comparable store sales. We depend on timely distribution and delivery of sufficient quantities of our products and our business can be harmed by interruptions at our distribution and fulfillment centers or disruptions in shipping. All products we purchase from our vendors in Asia must be shipped to our distribution centers by freight carriers and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient freight capacity on a timely basis and at favorable rates. Our inability to ensure delivery of products from our suppliers in a cost-effective, timely manner or the loss of one or more key freight carriers could have a negative effect on our business. Many of our shipments that come from Asia move through the West Coast ports that in the past were adversely affected by a slowdown. During the second half of fiscal 2004, this slowdown caused our shipping costs to increase as we used airfreight as an alternative delivery method to mitigate some of the impacts of the slowdown. The increased usage of air freight transportation had a negative impact on our gross margins. There can be no assurance that there will not be a similar slowdown in the future in the ports that we use. To the extent that disruptions in our supply chain impair the timely delivery of our products, or to the extent that such disruptions increase our costs, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We conduct the majority of our distribution operations and all of our catalog and Internet order processing fulfillment functions from our owned facility in Little Rock, Arkansas, and leased facilities in Little Rock, Arkansas; Ontario, California; and Richmond, Virginia. We also use contract fulfillment and warehouse facilities for additional seasonal requirements. Any disruption in the operations at any distribution center, particularly during the holiday shopping season, could result in late delivery of products and make it difficult to meet customer demand. We are also dependent on temporary employees to adequately staff our distribution facilities, particularly during busy periods such as the holiday shopping season. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive adequate assistance from our temporary employees, or that we will continue to have access to sufficient sources of temporary employees. In addition, we rely upon third-party carriers for our product shipments, including shipments to and from all of our stores. As a result, we are subject to certain risks, including employee strikes and inclement weather, associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our shipping needs. We may be subject to risks associated with our products, including product liability and false advertising claims. Our current and future products and services that we sell may contain defects or inadequate warnings or instructions, which could subject us to personal injury or property damage claims or product recalls. Although we maintain limited product liability insurance, if any successful claim or product recall is not covered by insurance or indemnification provided by a vendor, or is not covered by or exceeds our insurance coverage, or a vendor is unwilling or unable to indemnify us under an applicable indemnification agreement, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even where a product liability claim is not successful, or if we conduct a voluntary recall, we may incur substantial costs and suffer significant damage to our reputation. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims of false advertising with respect to our products. Whether or not these claims have merit, our brand image may be adversely affected and the costs of such claims may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated, with two stockholders beneficially owning approximately 39.5% of our common stock. As of May 24, 2007, stockholders associated with Knightspoint Partners LLC beneficially owned approximately 19.9% of our common stock, and stockholders associated with Sun Capital Securities beneficially owned approximately 19.6% of our common stock. Our board of directors currently consists of three directors, including our Chairman, nominated by Knightspoint and one director affiliated with Sun Capital Securities. Substantial sales of our common stock by any of these stockholders could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock price is volatile. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market and has experienced and is likely to continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations. From February 1, 2005 to January 31, 2007, the price per share of our common stock has ranged from a high of $17.20 to a low of $8.86. We believe that, among other factors, any of the following factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially: • our operating performance; 14 Table of Contents • corporate announcements; • monthly fluctuations in our comparable store sales; • announcements by other retailers; • the trading volume of our common stock in the public market; • general economic conditions; • financial market conditions; • acts of terrorism; and • threats of war. We are subject to various laws and regulations in connection with our business operations, and we could be subject to fines and litigation if we fail to comply. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in connection with our business operations, including laws relating to relations with employees, maintenance of safe manufacturing facilities, truth in packaging, the environment, advertising, regulation of medical products and consumer product safety. Costs of compliance with these laws and regulations or fines and litigation arising out of our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business and operating results. Compliance with corporate governance requirements and public disclosure obligations may subject us to additional operating expenses. We are subject to corporate governance requirements and heightened obligations with respect to public disclosure, including as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules. Compliance with corporate governance requirements and public disclosure obligations require us to incur significant operating costs, including legal and accounting fees. We incur significant expenses for, and devote management time and attention to, compliance and disclosure activities. Heightened compliance and disclosure obligations may also expose our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties, which may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified board members and executive officers. As a well known company, we are susceptible to unsolicited attention in the print and electronic media, which could have an adverse effect on our brand image and, consequently, our results of operations. We believe that our brand and corporate images are integral to the success of our business. The Sharper Image name is well known and, as a result, appears often in print and electronic media. Because of the right to free speech, we may not have any ability to prevent or respond to the content of these publications, even if we strongly disagree with them. Even if we are vigorous in expressing our disagreement, negative press, including with respect to our company, operations or products, may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our charter documents, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan and other agreements may make a takeover of us more difficult. We are a Delaware corporation. The Delaware General Corporation Law contains certain provisions that may make a change in control of our company more difficult or prevent the removal of incumbent directors. In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and our stockholders rights plan and other agreements contain provisions that may have the same effect. These provisions may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock, may discourage third-party bidders from making a bid for our company or may reduce any premiums paid to stockholders for their common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 