Risk Factors The following discussion presents risks that management believes are specific to our business and could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial performance. When analyzing an investment in the Company, the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, should be carefully considered. This list should not be viewed as comprehensive and may not include all risks that may affect the financial performance of the Company: Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twenty-four months. The volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown. In addition, the fixed-income markets have been experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage-and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly affected. These events and the continuing market upheavals, may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and also because we are dependent upon customer behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme and prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. 18 Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial products could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rate risk may have adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company’s profitability is largely a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on interest- earning assets and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most financial institutions, the Company’s net interest income and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government and competition, that influence market interest rates and the Company’s ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, the Company’s assets and liabilities may be such that they are affected differently by a change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable- and fixed- rate loans or investment securities could have a positive or negative effect on its net income, capital and liquidity. Although management believes it has implemented strategies and guidelines to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on results of operations, any substantial and prolonged change in market interest rates, including the slope of the interest rate curve, could adversely affect operating results. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Company’s loan portfolio could lead to higher charge-offs or an increase in the Company’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Company’s net income. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its borrowers may be unable to repay their loans and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment in full. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Company. Adverse changes in the economy or business conditions, either nationally or in the Company’s market areas, could increase credit-related losses and expenses and/or limit growth. Substantially all of the Company’s loans are to businesses and individuals in its limited geographic area and any economic decline in this market could impact the Company adversely. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide for an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If these assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, thereby having an adverse effect on operating results, and may cause the Company to increase the allowance in the future by increasing the provision for loan losses. The Company has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies that management believes are appropriate to control these risks; however, such policies and procedures may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. Most of our loans are secured by real estate. Our real estate secured lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions as they significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and analysis of the borrower's financial position and ability to meet current payment obligations when these types of loans are originated requires detailed evaluation and review at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. The decline in real estate values due to the downturn in the housing and commercial real estate markets have reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. Continued declines in real estate sales and prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. At June 30, 2009, we had $267 million, or 68%, of total loans held for investments in residential and commercial real estate loans. Impairment risk may impact our profitability. The Company regularly purchases U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise debt securities, U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise issued mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities, municipal bonds, trust preferred securities and equity securities. The Company is exposed to the risk that the issuers of these securities may experience significant deterioration in credit quality which could impact the market value of the issue. The Company periodically evaluates its investments to determine if market value declines are other-than-temporary. Once a decline is determined to be other-than-temporary, the value of the security is reduced and a corresponding charge to earnings is recognized. The Company recognized $428,000 of securities related impairment expense in the year ending June 30, 2009. 19 The Company also periodically evaluates its goodwill and other intangibles to determine impairment. There is risk that the discounted cash flow from the insurance agency acquisitions that created the goodwill and other intangibles could result in a present value lower than the book amount. Once the goodwill or other intangibles are determined to be impaired, the carrying amount of these assets is reduced and a charge to earnings is recognized. Strong competition within our markets may impact our profitability. The financial services industry is highly competitive, with competition for attracting and retaining deposits and making loans coming from other banks and savings institutions, credit unions, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of the Company’s competitors are much larger in terms of total assets and market capitalization, have a higher lending limit, greater access to capital and funding and offer a broader array of financial products and services. In light of these factors, the Company’s ability to continue to compete effectively is dependent upon its ability to maintain and build relationships through top quality service. The banking business is heavily regulated. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors, by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, expansion of branch offices and the offering of securities. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that its subsidiary bank is found, by regulatory examiners, to be undercapitalized. It is difficult to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on the Company’s future business and earnings prospects. Any substantial changes to applicable laws or regulations could also subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer, and inhibit its ability to compete with other financial service providers. The Company’s participation in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program which includes restrictions on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase outstanding common stock, as well as restrictions on executive compensation, may act to depress the market value of the Company’s common stock and hinder its ability to attract and retain well qualified executives. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement between the Company and the Treasury, the ability to declare or pay dividends on any of the Company’s common shares is limited to $0.09 per share per quarter. Specifically, the Company is unable to declare or pay dividends on common shares if in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares. In addition, the ability to repurchase outstanding common shares is restricted. The approval of the Treasury generally is required for the Company to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Series A Preferred Shares or common shares in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) unless all of the Series A Preferred Shares have been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, outstanding common shares may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the payment of Series A Preferred Share dividends. The restriction on the Company’s ability to pay dividends may depress its common share market price. As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, the Company must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for as long as the Treasury holds any securities acquired from the Company pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the Warrant, excluding any period during which the Treasury holds only the Warrant. In addition, the restrictions on the Company’s ability to compensate senior executives in relationship to executive compensation at companies that are not recipients of TARP funds may limit the Company’s ability to recruit and retain senior executives. The Treasury’s ability to change the terms, rules or requirements of the Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares after five years, the cost of this capital will increase substantially. If the Company is unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares prior to December 12, 2013, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on the Company’s financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares could have a material negative effect on liquidity and results of operations. 20 The Series A Preferred Shares impact net income available to holders of the Company’s Common Shares and earnings per Common Share, and the Warrant issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of Company Common Shares. While the additional capital raised through participation in the Treasury’s CPP Program provides further funding for the Company’s business, it has increased the number of diluted outstanding common shares and carries a preferred dividend. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A Preferred Shares will reduce the net income available to holders of Company common shares and earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of Company common shares will be diluted to the extent the Warrant issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A Preferred Shares is exercised. The common shares underlying the Warrant represented approximately 2.9% of total common shares outstanding as of June 30, 2009. Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the common shares it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common shares acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we do not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact our profitability. Management diligently reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to litigation in the normal course of our business, which may impact profitability. Although there is currently no litigation to which the Company is a party, future litigation that arises during the normal course of business could be material and have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Future litigation could also adversely impact the reputation of the Company in the communities that it serves. We maintain insurance, but the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full or partial coverage in any particular case. Attracting and retaining skilled personnel may impact the quality of services to customers. Attracting and retaining key personnel is critical to the Company’s success, and difficulty finding qualified personnel could have a significant impact on the Company’s business due to the lack of required skill sets and years of industry experience. Management is cognizant of these risks, and succession planning is built into the Company’s long-range strategic planning process. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Our future growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital levels will satisfy our regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest could be diluted. The terms of the Capital Purchase Program which the Company issued securities to the United States Department of Treasury may limit the Company’s ability to return capital to shareholders. 21 The FDIC deposit insurance special assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (7 cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain specified factors. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and will negatively impact our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. The assessment will be collected on September 30, 2009. Our special assessment was $275,000. The special assessment will negatively impact our earnings. In addition, the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 5 basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. The earliest possible date for imposing any such additional special assessment is September 30, 2009, with collection on December 30, 2009. The latest date possible for imposing any such additional special assessment is December 31, 2009, with collection on March 30, 2010. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt our earnings. 