Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties, together with all other information in this prospectus, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The trading price of our voting common stock could decline if one or more of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. Certain statements below are forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Associated With Our Business We may not be successful in the implementation of our business strategy. Following our merger with FHB Formation LLC in December 2010, we substantially revised our business strategy to include the building of a Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group to grow our loan portfolio and the introduction of an online affinity savings program, known as “ableBanking,” to grow our core deposits. Our ability to develop and offer new products and services depends, in part, on whether we can hire and retain enough suitably experienced and talented employees, identify suitable loans for purchase at attractive prices, identify enough suitable deposit customers, successfully build the systems and obtain the other resources necessary for creating the new product and service offerings. We may not be able to do so, or, doing so may be more expensive, or take longer, than we expect. Our experience with each of these initiatives is limited. Since the inception of the Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group through June 30, 2012, we have purchased loans with unpaid principal balances of $125.5 million for aggregate purchase price of $102.4 million. In addition, in May, 2012, we launched the pilot of ableBanking in the Boston area. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to regulatory conditions that could constrain our ability to grow our loan acquisition business. In conjunction with the regulatory approvals received for the merger with FHB Formation LLC, we committed to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10%, fund 100% of our loans with core deposits, limit purchased loans to 40% of total loans and hold commercial real estate loans (including owner-occupied commercial real estate) to within 300% of total risk-based capital. Core deposits, for purposes of this commitment, are defined as non-brokered non-maturity deposits and non-brokered insured time deposits. At June 30, 2012, the ratio of our loans to core deposits was 88.3%. Our ability to grow our loan portfolio will be dependent on our ability to raise additional core deposit funding. To the extent our ability to gather core deposits is constrained by market forces or for any other reason, our ability to achieve loan growth would be similarly constrained. We may not be able to grow our core deposits through ableBanking, or doing so may be more expensive or take longer than we expect. In May, 2012, we launched the pilot of our online affinity deposit program, ableBanking, in the Boston area. We believe that certain features of ableBanking, including the program’s association with non-profit organizations, will allow us to attract customers and provide an additional channel to obtain core deposits. However, our strategy with regard to ableBanking is untested and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow core deposits through ableBanking at the rate we anticipate, or that in obtaining such deposits, we will not be forced to price products on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, which would adversely affect our profitability. One of the commitments that we made in connection with securing the regulatory approvals for our merger with FHB Formation LLC is that we must fund 100% of our loans with core deposits. To the extent that we are unable to grow our core deposits, our ability to achieve loan growth would be constrained. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified key employees, which could adversely affect our business prospects, including our competitive position and results of operations. Our success in implementing our business plan, especially our loan purchasing business, is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled individuals. There is significant competition for those individuals with the experience and skills required to conduct many of our business activities. We may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. Since our merger with FHB Formation LLC in December 2010, we have hired ten senior employees to work in our Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards applicable to participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program for as long as the U.S. Treasury holds any Series A preferred stock. The restrictions on our ability to compensate senior executives may limit our ability to recruit and retain senior executives. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more loans of the Bank may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, the Bank may have to write off the loan in whole or in part. In such situations, the Bank may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and often the amount owed under the defaulted loan exceeds the value of the assets acquired. We periodically make a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including, but not limited to, our historical loss experience, the quality of the loan portfolio, certain economic conditions, 23 Table of Contents the value of the underlying collateral, expected cash flows from purchased loans, and the level of non-accruing and criticized loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, we will incur additional expenses. Determining the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We have in the past been, and in the future may be, required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed those estimated in our determination of our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of loans held in our loan portfolio were originated by third parties, and such loans may not have been subject to the same level of due diligence that Northeast Bank would have conducted had it originated the loans. At June 30, 2012, 23.7% of the loans held in our loan portfolio were originated by third parties, and therefore may not have been subject to the same level of due diligence that Northeast Bank would have conducted had it originated the loans. Although the Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group conducts a comprehensive review of all loans that it purchases, loans originated by third parties may lack current financial information and may have incomplete legal documentation and outdated appraisals. As a result, the Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group may not have information with respect to an acquired loan which, if known at the time of acquisition, would have caused it to reduce its bid price or not bid for the loan at all. This may adversely affect our yield on loans or cause us to increase our provision for loan losses. Our experience with loans held in our loan portfolio that were originated by third parties is limited. At June 30, 2012, the 23.7% of the loans held in our loan portfolio that were originated by third parties had been held by us for 134 days, calculated on a weighted average basis. Consequently, we have had only a relatively short period of time to evaluate the performance of those loans and the price at which we purchased them. Further experience with these loans may provide us with information that could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses. Our loan portfolio includes commercial loans, which are generally riskier than other types of loans. At June 30, 2012, our commercial real estate mortgage and commercial business loan portfolios comprised 56.2% of total loans. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. These loans, and purchased loans in particular, may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. The ability of a borrower to make or refinance a balloon payment may be affected by a number of factors, including the financial condition of the borrower, prevailing economic conditions and prevailing interest rates. Repayment of these loans is generally more dependent on the economy and the successful operation of a business. Because of the risks associated with 24 Table of Contents commercial loans, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans we have originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity is used principally to originate or purchase loans, to repay deposit liabilities and other liabilities when they come due, and to fund operating costs. Customer demand for non-maturity deposits can be difficult to predict. Changes in market interest rates, increased competition within our markets, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. Disruptions in the capital markets or interest rate changes may make the terms of wholesale funding sources – which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the Federal Reserve’s Borrower-in-Custody program, securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and brokered certificates of deposit – less favorable and may make it difficult to sell securities when needed to provide additional liquidity. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that we will not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations when they come due. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology. Communication and information systems are critical to the conduct of our business because we use these systems to manage our customer relationships and process accounting and financial reporting information. Although we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could prevent customers from using our website and our online banking services, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to securely transmit data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in the loss of business, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, including the costs of customer notification and remediation efforts. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation 25 Table of Contents claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Internal controls may fail or be circumvented. Effective controls over financial reporting are necessary to help ensure reliable financial reporting and prevent fraud. Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal control and assessing system effectiveness. Our system of internal control is a process designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that system objectives are being met. Failure or circumvention of the system of internal control could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition, and could further result in regulatory actions and loss of investor confidence. Our historical operating results may be of limited use to you in evaluating our historical performance and predicting our future results. We applied the acquisition method of accounting, as described in Accounting Standards Codification 805, Business Combinations, to the merger of FHB Formation LLC with and into Northeast. As a result of application of the acquisition method of accounting to our balance sheet, our financial statements from the periods prior to December 29, 2010, the date that the merger was consummated, are not directly comparable to the financial statements for periods subsequent to December 29, 2010. The lack of comparability arises from the assets and liabilities having new accounting bases as a result of recording them at their fair values as of the transaction date rather than at historical cost basis. In connection with the application of the acquisition method of accounting for the merger, the allowance for loan losses was reduced to zero when the loan portfolio was marked to its then current fair value. In addition, the accretion of fair value adjustments to certain interest-bearing assets and liabilities increased our net income for periods subsequent to the merger. The lack of comparability means that the periods being reported in the fiscal year June 30, 2011 in the statements and tables are not the same periods as reported for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, and, as a result, our historical operating results before December 29, 2010 are of limited relevance in evaluating our historical financial performance subsequent to December 29, 2010 and predicting our future operating results. Deterioration in the Maine economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Community Banking Division primarily serves individuals and businesses located in western and south-central Maine and southeastern New Hampshire. As a result, a significant portion of our earnings are closely tied to the economy of Maine. Deterioration in the Community Banking Division’s market in Maine could result in the following consequences: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • collateral for our loans may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power and reducing the value of collateral securing a loan; and • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us. Our future growth, if any, may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when we need it. As a bank, we are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, in conjunction with the regulatory approvals received for the merger with FHB Formation 26 Table of Contents LLC, we committed to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 15%. We may need to raise additional capital to support our operations or our growth, if any. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets and our financial performance at that time. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, investors’ interests could be diluted. Our failure to meet any applicable regulatory guideline related to our lending activities or any capital requirement otherwise imposed upon us or to satisfy any other regulatory requirement could subject us to certain activity restrictions or to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the regulatory authorities, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends or pursue acquisitions, the issuance by regulatory authorities of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. Risks Associated With the Industry Difficult market conditions and economic trends in the real estate market have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly affected by downturns in the U.S. real estate market. Declines in the real estate market over the past several years, with decreasing property values and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of commercial and construction, mortgage, and consumer loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions as the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined significantly. In addition, general downward economic trends and continued high levels of unemployment, among other factors, have led to erosion of customer confidence, a reduction in general business activity and increased market volatility. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these economic conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. Our ability to properly assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Accordingly, if these market conditions and trends continue, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies, write-offs and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in us losing business or experiencing reduced margins. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to continue to compete effectively in the Community Banking Division’s Maine market, in the markets in which the Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group invests and in the markets in which ableBanking will operate. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect its profitability. 27 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, our earnings and growth are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on us cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest income as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Net interest income is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and (ii) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, and therefore reduce our net interest income. Further, declines in market interest rates may trigger loan prepayments, which in many cases are within our customers’ discretion, and which in turn may serve to reduce our net interest income if we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have an adverse impact in our operations. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and our banking subsidiary, Northeast Bank, is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, the Maine Bureau of Financial Institutions and the FDIC, as the insurer of Northeast Bank’s deposits. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Maine Bureau of Financial Institutions have broad enforcement authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, including but not limited to the power to issue cease and desist orders, assess civil money penalties and impose other civil and criminal penalties. The Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the impact that such rulemaking will have on us, our customers or the financial industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with Northeast Bank’s deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. For example, while the Federal Reserve has issued rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act governing debit card interchange fees that apply to institutions with greater than $10 billion in assets, market forces may effectively require all banks to adopt debit card interchange fee structures that comply with these rules. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the “CFPB,” as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on us and our subsidiaries. Northeast Bank will continue to be examined by the Federal Reserve for compliance with such rules. The Dodd-Frank Act established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages and the regulatory agencies have focused on the examination and supervision of mortgage lending and servicing activities. Over the past year there has been a heightened regulatory scrutiny of consumer fees, which may result in new disclosure requirements or regulations regarding the fees that Northeast Bank may charge for products and services. The federal bank regulatory agencies have proposed new capital requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act. These proposed capital requirements increase the minimum 28 Table of Contents capital levels and implement new capital requirements for common equity and a capital conservation buffer. Additionally, the proposed capital requirements would eliminate the Tier 1 capital treatment of our trust preferred securities over a ten-year period and require us to hold more capital against certain types of assets. The new requirements could limit the manner in which we and Northeast Bank conduct our business and obtain financing. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III in the United States, or otherwise, could result in us and Northeast Bank having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as Northeast Bank, up to applicable limits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased deposit insurance assessment rates. If these increases are insufficient for the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect results of operations, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Changes in accounting standards can materially impact our financial statements. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock Recent market volatility has affected and may continue to affect the value of our common stock. The performance of our common stock has been and may continue to be affected by many factors, including volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, and the markets with respect to financial institutions generally. Government action and changes in government regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, may affect the value of our common stock. More general market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or interest rate changes could also cause the value of our common stock to decrease regardless of our operating results. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Our voting common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The average daily trading volume for Northeast voting common stock is less than the corresponding trading volume for larger financial institutions. Due to this relatively low trading volume, significant sales of Northeast voting common stock, or the expectation of these sales, may place significant downward pressure on the market price of Northeast voting common stock. No assurance can be given that a more active trading market in our common stock will develop in the foreseeable future or can be maintained. There can also be no assurance that the offering will result in a material increase in the “float” for our common stock, which we define as the aggregate market value of our voting common stock held by shareholders who are not affiliates of Northeast, because our affiliates may purchase shares of voting common stock in the offering. 29 Table of Contents There is a limited market for and restrictions on the transferability of our non-voting common stock Our non-voting common stock is not and will not be listed on any exchange. Additionally, the non-voting common stock can only be transferred in certain limited circumstances set forth in our articles of incorporation. Accordingly, holders of our non-voting common stock may be required to bear the economic consequences of holding such non-voting common stock for an indefinite period of time. Our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, which includes restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase outstanding common stock, may act to depress the market value of our common stock. Because of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, our ability to declare or pay dividends on shares of common stock is limited to $0.09 per share per quarter. We are unable to declare or pay dividends on shares of common stock if in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock. In addition, the U.S. Treasury’s approval is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Series A preferred stock or shares of common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) unless all shares of the Series A preferred stock have been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, outstanding shares of common stock may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends. The restriction on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of common stock may depress the market value of our common stock. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities or if certain defaults relating to those debt securities occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. As of June 30, 2012, we had outstanding $16.5 million in aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debt securities issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities by affiliates of ours that are statutory business trusts. We have also guaranteed those trust preferred securities. The indenture under which the junior subordinated debt securities were issued, together with the guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock (including the Series A preferred stock and our common stock) at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under the indenture; (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the guarantee; or (iii) we have elected to defer payment of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities. In that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities from time to time for up to five years. Events of default under the indenture generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debt securities, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on the Series A preferred stock and our common stock, from redeeming, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any of the Series A preferred stock or our common stock, and from making any payments to holders of the Series A preferred stock or our common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from Northeast Bank, and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from Northeast Bank to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. We and Northeast Bank are subject to laws that authorize regulatory authorities to block or reduce the flow of funds from Northeast Bank to us. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to the funds that Northeast needs in order to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments. In addition, if Northeast Bank’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to its common and preferred shareholders. Further, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of Northeast Bank’s creditors. We may not be able to pay dividends and, if we pay dividends, we cannot guarantee the amount and frequency of such dividends. In addition to the restrictions on the ability to declare or pay dividends imposed by the terms of the Series A preferred stock, the continued payment of dividends on shares of our common stock will depend upon our debt and equity structure, earnings and financial condition, need for capital in connection with possible future acquisitions, growth and other factors, including economic conditions, regulatory restrictions, and tax considerations. We cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends or, if we pay dividends, the amount and frequency of these dividends. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock in the future, which could dilute a shareholder’s ownership of common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, generally without shareholder approval, to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be dilutive to a shareholder’s ownership of our common stock. To the extent that we issue options or warrants to purchase common stock in the future and the options or warrants are exercised, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of Northeast common or preferred stock. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Accordingly, regulatory requirements and/or deterioration in our asset quality may require us to sell common stock to raise capital under circumstances and at prices that result in substantial dilution. We may issue debt and equity securities that are senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of its debt or preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of Northeast common stock. Our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Future offerings could reduce the value of shares of our common stock and dilute a shareholder’s interest in Northeast. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental entity. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity. 31 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Federal law imposes restrictions, including regulatory approval requirements, on persons seeking to acquire control over Northeast. Provisions of Maine law and provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. We have a classified board of directors, meaning that approximately one-third of our directors are elected annually. Additionally, our articles of organization authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. Other provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our shareholders include supermajority voting requirements to remove a director from office without cause; restrictions on shareholders calling a special meeting; a requirement that only directors may fill a board vacancy; and provisions regarding the timing and content of shareholder proposals and nominations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 