Risk Factors The following discusses risks that management believes are specific to our business and could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial performance. When analyzing an investment in the Company, the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, should be carefully considered. This list should not be viewed as comprehensive and may not include all risks that may affect the financial performance of the Company: Changes in interest rate risk may have adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company’s profitability is largely a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Like most financial institutions, the Company’s net interest income and margin will be affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government and competition, that influence market interest rates and the Company’s ability to respond to changes in such rates. At any given time, the Company’s assets and liabilities may be such that they are affected differently by a change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates, the length of loan terms or the mix of adjustable- and fixed- rate loans or investment securities could have a positive or negative effect on its net income, capital and liquidity. Although management believes it has implemented strategies and guidelines to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on results of operations, any substantial and prolonged change in market interest rates, including the slope of the interest rate curve, could adversely affect operating results. Changes in economic conditions and the composition of the Company’s loan portfolio could lead to higher charge-offs or an increase in the Company’s provision for loan losses and may reduce the Company’s net income. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its borrowers may be unable to repay their loans and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment in full. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Company. Adverse changes in the economy or business conditions, either nationally or in the Company’s market areas, could increase credit-related losses and expenses and/or limit growth. Substantially all of the Company’s loans are to businesses and individuals in its limited geographic area and any economic decline in this market could impact the Company adversely. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide for an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors. If these assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, thereby having an adverse effect on operating results, and may cause the Company to increase the allowance in the future by increasing the provision for loan losses. The Company has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies that management believes are appropriate to control these risks; however, such policies and procedures may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Impairment risk may impact our profitability. The Company regularly purchases U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise debt securities, U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise issued mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities and equity securities. The Company is exposed to the risk that the issuers of these securities may experience significant deterioration in credit quality which could impact the market value of the issue. The Company periodically evaluates its investments to determine if market value declines are other-than-temporary. Once a decline is determined to be other-than-temporary, the value of the security is reduced and a corresponding charge to earnings is recognized. 15 Strong competition within our markets may impact our profitability. The financial services industry is highly competitive, with competition for attracting and retaining deposits and making loans coming from other banks and savings institutions, credit unions, mutual fund companies, insurance companies and other non-bank businesses. Many of the Company’s competitors are much larger in terms of total assets and market capitalization, have a higher lending limit, greater access to capital and funding and offer a broader array of financial products and services. In light of these factors, the Company’s ability to continue to compete effectively is dependent upon its ability to maintain and build relationships through top quality service. The banking business is heavily regulated. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors, by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, expansion of branch offices and the offering of securities. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that its subsidiary bank is found, by regulatory examiners, to be undercapitalized. It is difficult to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on the Company’s future business and earnings prospects. Any substantial changes to applicable laws or regulations could also subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer, and inhibit its ability to compete with other financial service providers. If we do not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact our profitability. Management diligently reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to litigation in the normal course of our business, which may impact profitability. Although there is currently no litigation to which the Company is a party, future litigation that arises during the normal course of business could be material and have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Future litigation could also adversely impact the reputation of the Company in the communities that it serves. Attracting and retaining skilled personnel may impact the quality of services to customers. Attracting and retaining key personnel is critical to the Company’s success, and difficulty finding qualified personnel could have a significant impact on the Company’s business due to the lack of required skill sets and years of industry experience. Management is cognizant of these risks, and succession planning is built into the Company’s long-range strategic planning process. 