Risk Factors The following discussion addresses risks that management believes are specific to the pending merger of Northeast with FHB Formation, LLC, with Northeast surviving, and our business, and that could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial performance. When analyzing an investment in the Company, the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, should be carefully considered. This list should not be viewed as comprehensive and may not include all risks that may affect the financial performance of the Company: Risks Related to the Merger You may not receive the form of merger consideration that you elect. If the merger is completed, each outstanding share of Northeast common stock will be converted into the right to receive either $13.93 in cash or one share of the surviving corporation common stock, plus cash in lieu of any fractional share. You will have the opportunity to elect to receive all cash, all stock or a combination of cash and stock with respect to the shares of Northeast common stock that you hold. Your right as a Northeast shareholder to receive the consideration you elect for your shares is limited because of the allocation procedures set forth in the merger agreement, which are intended to ensure that 40% of the outstanding shares of Northeast common stock will be converted into the right to receive cash, and 60% of these shares of Northeast common stock will be converted into the right to receive surviving corporation common stock. If the total cash elections by Northeast shareholders are greater, or less, than the aggregate cash consideration to be paid in the merger, or the total stock elections by Northeast shareholders are greater, or less, than the aggregate stock consideration to be paid in the merger, you may not receive exactly the form of consideration that you elect and you may receive a pro rata amount of cash and surviving corporation common stock. A detailed discussion of the merger consideration provisions of the merger agreement is set forth under the sections titled “The Merger Agreement - Merger Consideration,” “Election Procedures,” and “Allocation Procedures,” beginning on page 78 of the S-4 filed with the SEC on June 15, 2010. We recommend that you carefully read that discussion and the merger agreement attached to the proxy statement/prospectus as Appendix A. In order to make an election, you must submit your shares of Northeast common stock, and you will then not be able to sell those shares unless you revoke your election prior to the election deadline. If you are a Northeast shareholder and want to make a cash or stock election, you will have to deliver your stock certificates (or follow the procedures for guaranteed delivery) and a properly completed and signed form of election to the exchange agent. The actual election deadline is October 15, 2010, unless extended. The election deadline must be at least five business days in advance of the completion of the merger, but it may be further in advance of the actual closing date. You will not be able to sell any shares of Northeast common stock that you have delivered as part of your election unless you revoke your election before the election deadline by providing written notice to the exchange agent. 60; If you do not revoke your election, you will not be able to liquidate your investment in Northeast common stock for any reason until you receive cash and/or surviving corporation common stock in the merger. In the time between delivery of your shares and the closing of the merger, the trading price of Northeast’s common stock may fluctuate, and you might otherwise want to sell your shares of Northeast common stock to gain access to cash, make other investments, or reduce the potential for a decrease in the value of your investment. The date that you will receive your merger consideration depends on the completion date of the merger, which is uncertain. The completion date of the merger might be later than expected due to unforeseen events, such as delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Northeast will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Northeast. These uncertainties may impair Northeast’s ability to attract, retain and motivate strategic personnel until the merger is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with Northeast to seek to change existing business relationships with Northeast. Experienced employees in the financial services industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents can be intense. Employees of Northeast may experience uncertainty about their future role with the surviving corporation until, or even after, strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. ; If strategic Northeast employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the surviving corporation, Northeast’s business following the merger could be harmed. In addition, the merger agreement restricts Northeast from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of FHB. These restrictions may prevent Northeast from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. The tax consequences of the merger for Northeast shareholders will be dependent upon the merger consideration received. The tax consequences of the merger to you will depend upon the merger consideration that you receive. A Northeast shareholder who receives surviving corporation common stock in connection with the merger will not recognize gain or loss. A Northeast shareholder who receives cash in exchange for all of that shareholder’s shares of Northeast common stock pursuant to the merger will either be treated as having redeemed those shares to Northeast or as having sold their shares to FHB or its members and generally will recognize capital gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount of cash received and the shareholder’s aggregate tax basis for such shares of Northeast common stock, which gain o r loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if such shares of Northeast common stock were held for more than one year. You should consult your own tax advisors as to the effect of the merger on your specific interests. 15 The required regulatory approvals may not be obtained, may delay the date of completion of the merger or may contain materially burdensome conditions. Northeast and FHB are required to obtain the approvals of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Maine Bureau of Financial Institutions prior to completing the merger and have agreed to used their reasonable best efforts to obtain these approvals. Satisfying any requirements of these regulatory agencies may delay the date of completion of the merger or such approval may not be obtained at all. In addition, you should be aware that, as in any transaction, it is possible that, among other things, restrictions on Northeast after the merger may be sought by governmental agencies as a condition to obtaining the required regulatory approvals and these conditions could be materially burdensome to the survi ving corporation. We cannot assure you as to whether these regulatory approvals will be received, the timing of the approvals, or whether any conditions will be imposed. If the merger is not completed, Northeast will have incurred substantial expenses without its shareholders realizing the expected benefits. Northeast has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the transactions described in this document. If the merger is not completed, Northeast expects that it will have incurred approximately $566,000in merger-related expenses. Northeast may also be required to pay FHB a termination fee of $1 million under certain circumstances. These expenses would likely have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of Northeast because it would not have realized the expected benefits of the merger. There can be no assurance that the merger will be completed. The termination fee and the restrictions on solicitation contained in the merger agreement may discourage other companies from trying to acquire Northeast. Until the completion of the merger, Northeast is prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or, with some exceptions, considering any inquiries or proposals that may lead to a proposal or offer for a merger or other business combination transaction with any person other than FHB. In addition, Northeast has agreed to pay a termination fee of $1 million to FHB in specified circumstances. These provisions could discourage other companies from trying to acquire Northeast even though those other companies might be willing to offer greater value to Northeast shareholders than FHB has offered in the merger. The payment of the termination fee also could have a material adverse effect on Northeast’s fina ncial condition. The surviving corporation common shares to be received by Northeast shareholders as a result of the merger will have different rights from shares of Northeast common stock. Upon completion of the merger, Northeast shareholders who receive shares of surviving corporation common stock in the merger will become surviving corporation shareholders, and their rights as shareholders will be governed by the amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws of the surviving corporation and Maine corporate law. The rights associated with Northeast common stock are different from the rights associated with the surviving corporation’s common stock. Some of the directors and executive officers of Northeast may have interests and arrangements that may have influenced their decisions to support or recommend that you approve the merger. The interests of some of the directors and executive officers of Northeast may be different from those of Northeast shareholders, and directors and officers of Northeast may be participants in arrangements that are different from, or in addition to, those of Northeast shareholders. These interests and arrangements include rights to indemnification and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and the continued service on the surviving corporation’s board of directors by two members of the Northeast board of directors who were members of the Northeast board of directors as of the date of the merger agreement. In addition, the surviving corporation intends to retain certain Northeast executive officers in senior leadership roles with the surviving corporation following consummation of the merger and has entered into new employment arrangements with these executive officers contingent upon the consummation of the merger. The fairness opinion obtained by Northeast from its financial advisor will not reflect changes in circumstances subsequent to the date of the merger agreement. Northeast has not obtained an updated opinion as of the date of this document from Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., its financial advisor. Changes in the operations and prospects of Northeast, general market and economic conditions and other factors which may be beyond the control of FHB and Northeast, and on which the fairness opinion was based, may alter the value of Northeast or the price of shares of Northeast common stock or surviving corporation common stock by the time the merger is completed. The opinion does not speak to the time the merger will be completed or to any other date other than the date of such opinion. As a result, the March 30, 2010 opinion will not address the fairness of the merger c onsideration, from a financial point of view, at the time the merger is completed. The merger may distract management from their other responsibilities. The merger could cause the management of Northeast to focus time and energies on matters relating to the merger that otherwise would be directed to Northeast’s business and operations. Any such distraction on the part of Northeast’s management, if significant, could affect Northeast’s ability to service existing business and develop new business and could adversely affect the business and earnings of Northeast following the merger. Unanticipated costs relating to the merger could reduce Northeast’s future earnings per share. FHB believes that it has reasonably estimated the likely incremental costs of Northeast’s operations following the merger. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Northeast following the merger. Moreover, the final acquisition accounting adjustments could vary significantly from the preliminary acquisition accounting adjustments included in the S-4 filed with the SEC on June 15, 2010, in the section titl ed "Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information", as a result of changes in market conditions, interest rates, or other factors such as Northeast's loan portfolio credit quality." If unexpected costs are incurred, the merger could have a significant dilutive effect on Northeast’s earnings per share. In other words, if the merger is completed, the earnings per share of Northeast’s common stock could be less than they would have been if the merger had not been completed. 16 If the merger is not consummated by December 31, 2010, either Northeast or FHB may choose not to proceed with the merger. Either Northeast or FHB may terminate the merger agreement if the merger has not been completed by December 31, 2010, unless the failure of the merger to be completed has resulted from the failure of the party seeking to terminate the merger agreement to perform its obligations. Risks Related to Northeast’s Business The surviving corporation may not be successful in its implementation of its business strategy. The surviving corporation’s business strategy following the merger includes building a Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group and growing deposits with an online affinity savings program. The surviving corporation’s ability to develop and offer new products and services following the merger will depend on whether the Federal Reserve Board approves the business plan, and whether the surviving corporation can hire and retain enough suitably experienced and talented employees, identify enough suitable customers and successfully build the systems and obtain the other resources necessary for creating the new product and service offerings. The surviving corporation may not be able to do so, or, identify suitable empl oyees and customers and building the systems and obtain the other resources necessary may be more expensive, or take longer, than the surviving corporation expects. There can be no assurance that the surviving corporation’s business strategy following the merger will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for Northeast and could adversely affect Northeast’s financial condition and results of operations. Northeast is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment that includes generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past eighteen months, with decreasing home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on Northeast’s borrowers or its customers , which could materially adversely affect Northeast’s financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Northeast and others in the financial services industry. In particular, Northeast faces the following risks in connection with these events: · Northeast’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease, which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans, resulting in significant credit losses, would increase expenses and could have a material adverse effect on Northeast’s operating results. · Increased regulation of Northeast’s industry and compliance with such regulation may increase Northeast’s costs, limit its ability to pursue business opportunities and increase compliance challenges. · Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies may adversely affect Northeast’s ability to market its products and services. · Northeast may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. · Consumer confidence in the financial industry has weakened and individual wealth has deteriorated, which could lead to declines in deposits and impact liquidity. · Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact Northeast’s credit losses and result in goodwill and other asset impairments. Recent market volatility has impacted and may continue to impact Northeast’s business and the value of Northeast’s common stock. The performance of Northeast’s business and the trading price of the shares of Northeast’s common stock have been and may continue to be affected by many factors including volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and with respect to financial institutions generally. Government action, such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinforcement Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), may also affect Northeast and the value of Northeast’s common stock. Given the unprecedented nature of this volatility, Northeast cannot predict what impact, if any, this volatility will have on Northeast’ s business or share price and, for these and other reasons, Northeast’s shares of common stock may trade at a price lower than that at which they were acquired pursuant to the merger. Northeast operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, or the manner in which they are applied. Northeast is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Maine Superintendent and by the FDIC, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which Northeast may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of Northeast’s assets and the determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. 17 Northeast’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program, which includes restrictions on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase outstanding common stock and restrictions on executive compensation, may act to depress the market value of Northeast’s common stock, potentially restrict its operational flexibility and hinder its ability to attract and retain well qualified executives. Pursuant to its participation in the Capital Purchase Program, Northeast’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of Northeast’s shares of common stock is limited to $0.09 per share per quarter. Northeast is unable to declare or pay dividends on shares of common stock if in arrears on the payment of dividends on its Series A preferred stock. In addition, Treasury’s approval generally is required for Northeast to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Series A preferred stock or shares of common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) unless all of the Series A preferred stock has been r edeemed or transferred by Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, outstanding shares of common stock may not be repurchased if Northeast is in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends. The restriction on Northeast’s ability to pay dividends may depress the market price for its shares of common stock. In addition, Northeast must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by ARRA for as long as Treasury holds any securities acquired from Northeast pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program or upon exercise of the warrant held by Treasury. In addition, the restrictions on Northeast’s ability to compensate senior executives as compared to executive compensation at companies that did not participate in the Capital Purchase Program may limit Northeast’s ability to recruit and retain senior executives. Treasury’s ability to change the terms, rules or requirements of the Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect Northeast’s financial condition and result s of operations. The outstanding Series A preferred stock could decrease net income and earnings per share, and the warrant issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of Northeast’s common stock. The sale of the Series A preferred stock to Treasury increased the number of outstanding shares of common stock on a fully-diluted basis. In addition, the Series A preferred stock carry a preferred dividend. The dividends declared on the Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to holders of Northeast’s common stock and earnings per share. In addition, the ownership interest of the existing holders of Northeast’s common stock will be diluted to the extent that Treasury exercises the warrant it acquired in connection with Northeast’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program. If Northeast is unable to redeem the outstanding Series A preferred stock, the annual dividend rate will increase substantially. If Northeast is unable to redeem the outstanding Series A preferred stock prior to December 12, 2013, the annual dividend rate would increase from 5.0% to 9.0%. Depending on Northeast’s financial condition at the time, such an increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A preferred stock could have a material negative effect on liquidity and results of operations. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in Northeast losing business or experiencing reduced margins. Northeast currently primarily operates in western and south central Maine. Northeast’s future growth and success will depend on its ability to compete effectively in these Maine markets, in the markets in which the Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group invests and in the markets in which the online affinity savings program operates. Northeast faces aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which Northeast conducts its business. Some of Northeast’s competitors have significantly greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, Northeast could lose business to competitors or could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect its profitability. Adverse events in Maine, where Northeast’s business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact its results and future growth. Northeast’s business, the location of its branches, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Maine. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, Northeast’s business and earnings are closely tied to general business and economic conditions, particularly the economy of Maine. As a result, Northeast is exposed to geographic risks and adverse changes in laws and regulations in Maine would have a greater negative impact on Northeast’s revenues, financial condition and business than similar institutions in markets outside of Maine. Northeast is dependent upon the services of its management team. Northeast is dependent upon the ability and experience of a small number of its key management personnel who have substantial experience with Northeast’s operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which Northeast offers its services. Northeast’s future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more senior executives or key managers could have a material adverse effect on Northeast. Northeast’s success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that Northeast will continue to attract or retain such personn el. 18 Northeast is a holding company and depends on its subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments. Northeast is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking subsidiary and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments on Northeast’s common stock and to fund all payments on its other obligations. Northeast and the Bank are subject to laws that authorize regulatory authorities to block or reduce the flow of funds from the Bank to Northeast. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to the funds that Northeast needs in order to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments. In addition, if the Bank’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to Northeast while maintaining adequate capital levels, Northeast may no t be able to make dividend payments to its common and preferred shareholders. Further, Northeast’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s creditors. Northeast may not be able to pay dividends and, if Northeast pays dividends, Northeast cannot guarantee the amount and frequency of such dividends. In addition to the restrictions on the ability to declare or pay dividends imposed by the terms of the Series A preferred stock, the continued payment of dividends on shares of the surviving company common stock will also depend upon Northeast’s debt and equity structure, earnings and financial condition, need for capital in connection with possible future acquisitions, and other factors, including economic conditions, regulatory restrictions, and tax considerations. Northeast cannot guarantee that it will pay dividends or, if it pays dividends, the amount and frequency of these dividends. An increase in Northeast’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, Northeast is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Northeast evaluates the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon various factors. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in Northeast’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adver sely affect Northeast’s ability to estimate the incurred losses in its loan portfolio. If Northeast’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, Northeast’s earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Northeast may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. Prepayments of loans may negatively impact Northeast’s business. In certain circumstances, Northeast’s customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans. The speed at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within Northeast’s customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and Northeast is unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, Northeast’s interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on Northeast’s results of operations and financial condition. Northeast’s loan portfolio subjects it to credit risk. Northeast is exposed to the risk that its borrowers may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Although credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting Northeast’s credit exposure. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect Northeast’s net interest income and profitability. The majority of Northeast’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of Northeast are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on Northeast cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact Northeast’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends, to a large extent, on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between (1) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans, and (2) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on Northeast’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing lia bilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce Northeast’s net interest income. While Northeast has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, it cannot provide assurances that it will be successful in doing so. 19 Deposit premium insurance assessments may increase substantially, which will adversely affect expenses. The FDIC imposes an assessment against financial institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and, prior to 2009, ranged from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule that increasing the current deposit insurance assessment rates to a range of 12 to 45 basis points, effective as of April 1, 2009. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The special assessment amounted to 5 basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject t o a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. Northeast’s special assessment was $275,000. The FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 5 basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. The latest date possible for imposing any such additional special assessment was December 31, 2009, with collection on March 30, 2010. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC may negatively impact Northeast’s earnings. Northeast may not be able to attract and retain investment services and insurance clients at current levels. Due to intense competition, Northeast’s investment services division and its insurance offices may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong in Northeast’s geographic market areas because there are numerous well-established and successful investment services and insurance firms in these areas. Many of Northeast’s competitors have greater resources than Northeast. Northeast’s ability to successfully attract and retain investment services and insurance clients is dependent upon its ability to compete with competitors’ investment and insurance products, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If Northeast is not successful in attracting and ret aining investment services and insurance clients, its results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Regulators may restrict distributions or require divestiture if Northeast’s subsidiaries are undercapitalized. If an FDIC-insured depository institution, such as the Bank, fails to meet certain capital standards or requirements (such institution being referred to as an “undercapitalized institution”), the appropriate regulatory agency would be required by law to take one or more of certain specific actions with respect to such institution (for example, the regulatory agency may require the institution to issue new shares, merge with another depository institution, restrict the interest rates it pays on deposits, restrict its asset growth, terminate certain activities, have a new election for its board of directors, dismiss certain directors or officers, divest of certain subsidiaries and/or take any other action that will better resolve th e problems of the institution in a manner that will minimize the long-term loss to the FDIC) in the event the undercapitalized institution failed to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or failed to implement such plan. If Northeast were to control an undercapitalized institution, then the Federal Reserve would be required by law to take one or more of such actions if (i) Northeast and any other company that controls the undercapitalized institution did not agree to guarantee the capital restoration plan for such undercapitalized institution or (ii) the institution was “significantly undercapitalized” as defined in regulations issued by the appropriate regulatory agency. In either case, the appropriate regulatory agency may (a) prohibit Northeast from making any capital distribution without the prior approval of such regulatory agency; (b) require Northeast to divest companies that are controlled by Northeast and that are in danger of becoming in solvent and pose a significant risk to the undercapitalized institution; and (c) require Northeast to divest the undercapitalized institution. Negative public opinion could damage Northeast’s reputation and adversely impact business and revenues. As a financial institution, Northeast’s earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. Negative public opinion could result from Northeast’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by Northeast to meet its clients’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect Northeast’s ability to keep, attract and/or retain clients and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. ;Actual or alleged conduct by one of Northeast’s businesses can result in negative public opinion about its other businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect Northeast’s credit ratings, which are important to its access to unsecured wholesale borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding. Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing Northeast to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. If clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, Northeast could lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing its funding costs. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income. Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits. Northeast’s future growth, if any, may require Northeast to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Northeast is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. Northeast may need to raise additional capital to support its operations or its growth, if any. Northeast’s ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets and Northeast’s financial performance at that time, both of which are outside Northeast’s control. Accordingly, Northeast may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If Northeast cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be mat erially impaired. In addition, if Northeast decides to raise additional equity capital, Investors’ interest could be diluted. 20 Recently enacted financial reform legislation may have a significant impact on the Corporation and results of its operation. On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”). The goals of the new legislation include restoring public confidence in the financial system following the 2007-2008 financial and credit crises, preventing another financial crisis and allowing regulators to identify failings in the system before another crisis can occur. Among other things, the Act creates the Financial Stability Oversight Council, with oversight authority for monitoring and regulating systemic risk, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have broad regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products and services. 60;The Act also changes the responsibilities of the current federal banking regulators, imposes additional corporate governance and disclosure requirements in areas such as executive compensation and proxy access, and limits or prohibits proprietary trading and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks. The scope of the Act impacts many aspects of the financial services industry, and it requires the development and adoption of many implementing regulations over the next several months and years; thus, the effects of the Act on the financial services industry will depend, in large part, upon the extent to which regulators exercise the authority granted to them under the Act and the approaches taken in implementing regulations. The Company and the entire financial services industry has begun to assess the potential impact of the Act on business and operations, but at this early stage, the likely impact cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty. However, it would appear th at the Company is likely to be impacted by the Act in the areas of corporate governance, deposit insurance assessments, capital requirements and restrictions on fees charges that may be charged to consumers. 