ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves certain risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. To understand these risks and to evaluate an investment in our common stock, you should read this entire report, including the following risk factors. If any of the potential events described in these risk factors actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly. The Company may not be successful in the implementation of its post-Merger business strategy. The Company’s business strategy following the Merger was revised to include building a Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group and growing deposits with an online affinity savings program. The Company’s ability to develop and offer new products and services depends on whether the Company can hire and retain enough suitably experienced and talented employees, identify enough suitable customers and successfully build the systems and obtain the other resources necessary for creating the new product and service offerings. The Company may not be able to do so, or, identifying suitable employees and customers and building the systems and obtain the other resources necessary may be more expensive, or take longer, than the Company expects. There can be no assurance that our business strategy following the Merger will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. 25 Table of Contents Continued economic weakness or further weakening could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company continues to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment that includes generally uncertain national and local conditions. Within Maine, the unemployment rate has improved slightly over the past few years, to 7.7% from a high of 8.4% in 2009, but remains high by historic standards. Residential loan sales were down 18% in the first 6 months of 2011 from the comparable 2010 period, while Maine home values have remained relatively stable over the past year. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Northeast and others in the financial services industry. In particular, Northeast faces the following risks in connection with these events: • Continued asset valuation declines and an increase in the number of borrowers unable to repay their loans in accordance with their original terms. Increased delinquencies, coupled with decreases in the value of the collateral securing loans, could result in increased credit losses. • A decrease in demand for our loans and other products and services offered by us, which would result in a decrease in revenues. • Higher FDIC assessments may be required if market developments significantly deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduce the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Recent market volatility has affected and may continue to affect the value of the Company’s common stock. The performance of the Company’s common stock has been and may continue to be affected by many factors including volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, and the markets with respect to financial institutions generally. Government action and changes in government regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, may affect Northeast and the value of Northeast’s common stock. More general market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or interest rate changes could also cause the Company’s stock to decrease regardless of the Company’s operating results. The Company’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program, which includes restrictions on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase outstanding common stock and restrictions on executive compensation, may act to depress the market value of Northeast’s common stock, potentially restrict its operational flexibility and hinder its ability to attract and retain well qualified executives. Pursuant to its participation in the Capital Purchase Program, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of Northeast’s shares of common stock is limited to $0.09 per share per quarter. The Company is unable to declare or pay dividends on shares of common stock if in arrears on the payment of dividends on its Series A preferred stock. In addition, the Treasury’s approval generally is required for Northeast to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Series A preferred stock or shares of common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) unless all of the Series A preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred by Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, outstanding shares of common stock may not be repurchased if Northeast is in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends. The restriction on the Company’s ability to pay dividends may depress the market price for shares of its common stock. In addition, the Company must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by ARRA for as long as Treasury holds any securities acquired from Northeast pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program or upon exercise of the warrant held by Treasury. In addition, the restrictions on the Company’s ability to compensate senior executives as compared to executive compensation at companies that did not participate in the Capital Purchase Program may limit the Company’s ability to recruit and retain senior executives. Treasury’s ability to change the terms, rules or requirements of the Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents The outstanding Series A preferred stock could decrease net income and earnings per share, and the warrant issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of the Company’s common stock. The sale of the Series A preferred stock to Treasury increased the number of outstanding shares of common stock on a fully-diluted basis. In addition, the Series A preferred stock carries a preferred dividend. The dividends declared on the Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to holders of the Company’s common stock and earnings per share. In addition, the ownership interest of the existing holders of Northeast’s common stock will be diluted to the extent that Treasury exercises the warrant it acquired in connection with Northeast’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program. If the Company is are unable to redeem the outstanding Series A preferred stock, the annual dividend rate will increase substantially. If Northeast is unable to redeem the outstanding Series A preferred stock prior to December 12, 2013, the annual dividend rate would increase from 5.0% to 9.0%. Depending on the Company’s financial condition at the time, such an increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A preferred stock could have a material negative effect on liquidity and results of operations. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in Northeast losing business or experiencing reduced margins. The Company currently operates primarily in western and south central Maine. The Company’s future growth and success will depend on its ability to compete effectively in these Maine markets, in the markets in which the Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group invests and in the markets in which the planned online affinity savings program operates. The Company faces aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which the Company conducts its business. Some of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, the Company could lose business to competitors or could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect its profitability. Adverse events in Maine, where the Company’s business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact its results and future growth. The Company’s business, the location of its branches, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Maine. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company’s business and earnings are closely tied to general business and economic conditions, particularly the economy of Maine. As a result, Northeast is exposed to geographic risks and adverse changes in laws and regulations in Maine would have a greater negative impact on Northeast’s revenues, financial condition and business than similar institutions in markets outside of Maine. The Company is dependent upon its employees. The Company’s success is dependent, in large measure, upon its ability to attract and retain key people. There exists significant competition for those with the experience and skills required to conduct many of the Company’s business activities. There is no assurance that the Company will continue to attract or retain such personnel. 27 Table of Contents Northeast is a holding company and depends on its subsidiary for dividends, distributions and other payments. Northeast is a separate and distinct legal entity from its banking subsidiary and depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from the Bank to fund dividend payments on Northeast’s common stock and to fund all payments on its other obligations. Northeast and the Bank are subject to laws that authorize regulatory authorities to block or reduce the flow of funds from the Bank to Northeast. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to the funds that Northeast needs in order to make payments on its obligations or dividend payments. In addition, if the Bank’s earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to Northeast while maintaining adequate capital levels, Northeast may not be able to make dividend payments to its common and preferred shareholders. Further, Northeast’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s creditors. The Company may not be able to pay dividends and, if the Company pays dividends, the Company cannot guarantee the amount and frequency of such dividends. In addition to the restrictions on the ability to declare or pay dividends imposed by the terms of the Series A preferred stock, the continued payment of dividends on shares of the Company’s common stock will also depend upon the Company’s debt and equity structure, earnings and financial condition, need for capital in connection with possible future acquisitions, growth and other factors, including economic conditions, regulatory restrictions, and tax considerations. The Company cannot guarantee that it will pay dividends or, if it pays dividends, the amount and frequency of these dividends. The Company’s loan portfolio is subject to credit risk and achievement of the Company’s goal to increase its portfolio of purchased commercial loans will increase its exposure to credit risk. Northeast is exposed to the risk that its borrowers may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Although credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting our credit exposure. Further, the Bank’s commercial mortgage and commercial business loan portfolios, which currently comprise 44.4% of total loans, are expected to grow as a result of the activities of the newly-launched Loan Acquisition and Servicing Group (“LASG”). Commercial loans normally return higher interest yields, but also generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. These loans, and purchased loans in particular, may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. The ability of a borrower to make or refinance a balloon payment may be affected by a number of factors, including the financial condition of the borrower, prevailing economic conditions and prevailing interest rates. Repayment of these loans is generally more dependent on the economy and the successful operation of a business. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, the Company may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. An increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. The Company evaluates the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that the Company believes is adequate based upon various factors. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the 28 Table of Contents level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect its ability to estimate the incurred losses in its loan portfolio. If the Company’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, the Company’s earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. The Company may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s net interest income and profitability. The majority of the Company’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of the Company are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on the Company cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends, to a large extent, on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between (1) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans, and (2) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on the Company’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce the Company’s net interest income. Further, declines in market interest rates may trigger loan prepayments, which in many cases are within the Company’s customers’ discretion, which in turn may serve to reduce net interest income if the Company is unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates. While the Company has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, the Company cannot provide assurances that it will be successful in doing so. The Company is subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The Company’s liquidity is used principally to originate or purchase loans, to repay deposit liabilities and other liabilities when they come due, and to fund operating costs. Changes in market interest rates, increased competition within its markets, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. Disruptions in the capital markets or interest rate changes may make the terms of wholesale funding sources less favorable and may make it difficult to sell securities when needed to provide additional liquidity. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that the Company will not have sufficient funds to meet its obligations when they come due. The Company monitors its liquidity closely. Overnight investments and the unencumbered portion of its securities portfolio can be used as a source of liquidity. Wholesale funding sources include FHLB advances, the Federal Reserve’s Borrower-in-Custody program, securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and brokered CDs. An additional source of liquidity, should it be needed, is the sale or securitization of loans. The Company committed, in conjunction with the regulatory approvals received for the Merger, to fund 100% of its loans with core deposits. Core deposits, for purposes of this commitment, are defined as non-maturity deposits and non-brokered insured time deposits. At June 30, 2011, the ratio of the Company’s loans to core deposits 29 Table of Contents stood at 84.2%, providing room within the commitment constraint to grow the loan portfolio by approximately $58 million as of that date. However, should a one-to-one ratio of loans to core deposits be achieved, the ability to grow loans further will be dependent on the Company’s ability to raise additional core deposit funding. To the extent the Company’s ability to gather core deposits is constrained by market forces or for any other reason, our ability to achieve loan growth would be similarly constrained, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve System could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The commercial banking business is affected not only by legislation, regulatory policies, and general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. Changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowing, availability of borrowing at the “discount window,” open market operations, the imposition of changes in reserve requirements against member banks’ deposits and assets of foreign branches and the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates are some of the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve. These monetary policies are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distributions of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks and are expected to do so in the future. The monetary policies of these agencies are influenced by various factors, including inflation, unemployment, short-term and long-term changes in the international trade balance and in the fiscal policies of the United States Government. Future monetary policies cannot be predicted and the effect of such policies on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Northeast Bank may be adverse. Regulators may restrict distributions or require divestiture if Northeast’s subsidiaries are undercapitalized. If an FDIC-insured depository institution, such as the Bank, fails to meet certain capital standards or requirements (such institution being referred to as an “undercapitalized institution”), the appropriate regulatory agency would be required by law to take one or more of certain specific actions with respect to such institution (for example, the regulatory agency may require the institution to issue new shares, merge with another depository institution, restrict the interest rates it pays on deposits, restrict its asset growth, terminate certain activities, have a new election for its board of directors, dismiss certain directors or officers, divest of certain subsidiaries and/or take any other action that will better resolve the problems of the institution in a manner that will minimize the long-term loss to the FDIC) in the event the undercapitalized institution failed to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or failed to implement such plan. If Northeast were to control an undercapitalized institution, then the Federal Reserve would be required by law to take one or more of such actions if (i) Northeast and any other company that controls the undercapitalized institution did not agree to guarantee the capital restoration plan for such undercapitalized institution or (ii) the institution was “significantly undercapitalized” as defined in regulations issued by the appropriate regulatory agency. In either case, the appropriate regulatory agency may (a) prohibit Northeast from making any capital distribution without the prior approval of such regulatory agency; (b) require Northeast to divest companies that are controlled by Northeast and that are in danger of becoming insolvent and pose a significant risk to the undercapitalized institution; and (c) require Northeast to divest the undercapitalized institution. The Company faces operational risk. The Company is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud, unauthorized transactions, inadvertent errors, faulty systems, legal risk and reputational risk, among others. Threats to information systems and customer information in particular have become more widespread. Key areas of operational risk to which the Company is exposed include: Internal controls may fail or be circumvented: Effective controls over financial reporting are necessary to help ensure reliable financial reporting and prevent fraud. Management is responsible for maintaining an effective 30 Table of Contents system of internal control and assessing system effectiveness. The Company’s system of internal control is a process designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that system objectives are being met. Failure or circumvention of the Company’s system of internal control could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, profitability, and financial condition, and could further result in regulatory actions and loss of investor confidence. Breaches of security or systems failures could have an adverse effect on the Company business: Communication and information systems are critical to the conduct of the Company’s business, since the Company uses such systems to manage the Company’s customer relationships and process accounting and financial reporting information. While the Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of the Company’s security systems could prevent customers from using its web site and its online banking services, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although the Company relies on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to securely transmit data, these precautions may not protect the Company’s systems from compromises or breaches of security. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in the loss of business, subject the Company to increased regulatory scrutiny or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, profitability and financial condition. Negative public opinion could damage the Company’s reputation: Negative public opinion could result from the Company’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by Northeast to meet its clients’ expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep, attract and/or retain clients and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of Northeast’s businesses can result in negative public opinion about the Company’s other businesses. Reputational damage could adversely affect the Company’s business and revenues. The Company’s future growth, if any, may require the Company to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Northeast is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Company may need to raise additional capital to support its operations or its growth, if any. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets and the Company’s financial performance at that time, both of which are outside Northeast’s control. Accordingly, the Company may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on acceptable terms, or at all. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if the Company decides to raise additional equity capital, Investors’ interests could be diluted. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, or the manner in which they are applied. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Maine Superintendent and by the FDIC, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which Northeast may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of Northeast’s assets and the determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on operations. 31 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards can materially impact Northeast’s financial statements. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company restating prior period financial statements. Changes and interpretations of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact Northeast’s financial statements. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than Northeast and challenge tax positions that it has taken on its tax returns. This may result in the disallowance of deductions or differences in the timing of deductions and result in the payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could materially affect the Company’s performance. Unpredictable catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, pandemic disease, windstorms, floods, severe winter weather or other catastrophes could adversely affect the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition or results of operations. This may result in a significant number of employees that are unavailable to perform critical operating functions at either their regular worksite or the disaster recovery worksite. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on the Company in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by Northeast Bank. Item1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 