Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in Summit Financial Group, Inc. common stock involve risk as discussed below. Market Price Fluctuations The market price of our stock may fluctuate significantly in response to several factors, including: · Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance · Volatility of stock market prices and volumes · Rumors or erroneous information · Changes in market valuations of similar companies · Changes in interest rates · New developments in the banking industry · Variations in our quarterly or annual operating results · New litigation or changes in existing litigation · Regulatory actions Government Regulation Future governmental regulation and legislation could limit growth. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of our operations. Changes to these laws could affect our ability to deliver or expand our services and diminish the value of our business. Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. Our income and cash flow depend primarily on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence loan originations, purchases of investments, volumes of deposits, and rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases or decreases in interest rates or by the shape of the yield curve. Credit Risk We take credit risk by virtue of making loans, purchasing non-governmental securities, extending loan commitments and letters of credit, and being counterparties to off-balance sheet financial instruments such as interest rate derivatives. We manage the credit risk through a program of consistent underwriting standards, the review of certain credit decisions, and an on-going process of assessment of the quality of the credit already extended. Our credit administration function uses risk management techniques to ensure that loans adhere to corporate policy and problem loans are promptly identified. These procedures provide us with the information necessary to implement policy adjustments where necessary, and to take proactive corrective actions. Competition We face aggressive competition not only from banks, but also from other financial institutions, including finance companies and credit unions, and, to a limited degree, from other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, and consumer finance companies. A number of competitors in our market areas are larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. Our profitability depends upon our ability to attract loans and deposits. There is a risk that aggressive competition could result in our controlling a smaller share of our markets. A decline in market share could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Growth and Capital We may not be able to maintain and manage our growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have had significant growth during the past five years, and we plan to continue to grow and expand. Our ability to continue to grow depends on our ability to open new branch offices, attract deposits to those locations, and identify loan and investment opportunities. Our ability to manage growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth and maintain cost controls and asset quality. It is possible that we may need to raise additional capital to support future growth. We cannot make any assurance that additional capital would be available on terms satisfactory to us at all. This could force us to limit our growth strategy. If we are unable to sustain our growth, our earnings could be adversely affected. If we grow too quickly, however, and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, rapid growth also could adversely affect our financial performance. 10 Key Personnel Our success is dependent upon the continued service and skills of our executive officers and senior management. If we lose the services of these key personnel, it could have a negative impact on our business because of their skills, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Other Additional factors could have a negative effect on our financial performance and the value of our common stock. Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions, and losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 