Item 1A Risk Factors The following list describes several risk factors that are applicable to the Company: • The Current Economic Environment May Deteriorate Adversely Affecting the Asset Quality, Earnings and Cash Flow. The Company faces various material risks, including credit risk and the risk that the demand for products will decrease. In a recession or other economic downturn, these risks would probably become more acute. In an economic downturn, the Company’s credit risk and associated provision for credit losses and legal expense will increase. Also, decreases in consumer confidence, real estate values, and interest rates, usually associated with a downturn, could combine to make the types of loans the Bank originates less profitable and could cause elevated levels of losses on the Company’s commercial and consumer loans. While economic conditions in the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. • Adverse Economic Conditions in Europe and Latin America May Negatively Impact the Company As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Santander, significant aspects of the Company’s strategy, infrastructure and capital funding are dependent on its parent, Santander. Although Santander has a significant presence in various markets around the world, Santander’s results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally in Europe and Latin America. Accordingly, a significant decline in general economic conditions in Europe or Latin America, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, or other occurrences could impact Santander, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. • Disruptions in the Global Financial Markets have Affected, and May Continue to Adversely Affect, SHUSA’s Business and Results of Operations. Although market conditions have improved, unemployment in the United States continues to remain near historically high levels, and conditions are expected to remain challenging for financial institutions in 2012. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the most recent recession, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant write–downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government–sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write–downs, initially of mortgage–backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivatives, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital and to merge with other financial institutions. Furthermore, certain European member countries have fiscal obligations that exceed their fiscal revenue, which has raised concerns about such countries’ abilities to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth. A weakened European economy may spread beyond Europe and could cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of European financial institutions and the stability of European member economies. Such events could, likewise, negatively affect U.S.-based financial institutions, counterparties with which SHUSA does business and the stability of the global financial markets. Disruptions in the global financial markets also adversely affected the corporate bond markets, debt and equity underwriting and other elements of the financial markets. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, some lenders and institutional investors reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to certain borrowers, including other financial institutions. The impact on available credit, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, SHUSA’s businesses, capital, liquidity or other financial condition and results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of SHUSA’s preferred stock or debt securities. • SHUSA May Experience Further Write-Downs of its Financial Instruments and Other Losses Related to Volatile and Illiquid Market Conditions. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets continue to present difficulties in valuing certain of SHUSA’s assets. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these assets in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales of these assets, the price SHUSA ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could require the Company to take further write–downs in respect of these assets, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition in future periods. 13 • Liquidity is Essential to the Company’s Businesses, and the Company Relies on External Sources, Including Government Agencies to Finance a Significant Portion of its Operations. Adequate liquidity is essential to SHUSA’s businesses. The Bank primarily relies on the Federal Home Loan Bank, deposits and other third party sources of funding for its liquidity needs. SHUSA’s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. A reduction in SHUSA’s credit ratings could adversely affect its liquidity, widen its credit spreads or otherwise increase its borrowing costs. • A Change in the United States sovereign debt credit rating could have a significant impact on the value of the Bank’s assets On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), one of three major credit rating agencies which also include Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch, lowered its long-term credit rating on the United States sovereign debt from AAA to AA+. Moody’s and Fitch each maintained the highest rating on U.S. sovereign debt, but have assigned a negative outlook to its ratings. The implications of these actions by the ratings agencies could include negative effects on U.S. Treasury securities as well as instruments issued, guaranteed or insured by government agencies or government-sponsored institutions. These types of instruments are significant assets for the Company. In addition, the potential impact could exacerbate the other risks to which the Company is subject to including, but not limited to, the risk factors described therein. • Impact of Future Regulation Changes May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Profitability. Congress often considers new financial industry legislation, and the federal banking agencies routinely propose new regulations. New legislation and regulation may include dramatic changes with respect to the federal deposit insurance system, consumer financial protection measures, compensation and systematic risk oversight authority. There can be no assurances that new legislation and regulations will not adversely affect us. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act”, which instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. The act includes a number of specific provisions designated to promote enhanced supervision and regulation of financials firms and financial markets, protect consumers and investors from financial abuse and provide the government with tools to manage a financial crisis and raise international regulatory standards. The act also introduces a substantial number of reforms that reshape the structure of the regulation of the financial services industry, requiring more than 60 studies to be conducted and more than 200 regulations to be written over the next two years. Although the true impact of this legislation to SHUSA and the industry will be unknown until these are complete, they will involve higher compliance costs and certain elements, such as the debit interchange legislation, will negatively affect the Company’s revenue and earnings. See further discussion on Dodd-Frank in Item 1-Business. These and other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect SHUSA in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes present the risk of financial loss due to regulatory fines or penalties, restriction or suspension of business, or cost of mandatory corrective action as a result of failing to adhere to applicable laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance. • The Preparation of SHUSA’s Financial Statements Requires the Use of Estimates That May Vary From Actual Results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One example of a significant critical estimate is the level of the allowance for credit losses. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, SHUSA cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. 14 • The Preparation of SHUSA’s Tax Returns Requires the Use of Estimates & Interpretations of Complex Tax Laws and Regulations and Are Subject to Review By Taxing Authorities. SHUSA is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and certain foreign countries. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and relevant Governmental taxing authorities which is sometimes subject to prolonged evaluation periods until a final resolution is reached. In establishing a provision for income tax expense and filing returns, the Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. • Changing Interest Rates May Adversely Affect the Bank’s Profits. To be profitable, the Bank must earn more money from interest on loans and investments and fee-based revenues than the interest the Bank pays to the depositors and creditors and the amount necessary to cover the cost of the operations of the Bank. Rising interest rates may hurt income because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of the investment securities and loans, and increase the amount that is paid to attract deposits and borrow funds. If interest rates decrease, net interest income could be negatively affected if interest earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans, mortgage-related securities, and other investment securities, decreases more quickly than interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. This would cause net interest income to go down. In addition, if interest rates decline, loans and investments may prepay earlier than expected, which may also lower income. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate, and management cannot predict future Federal Reserve Board actions or other factors that will cause rates to change. If the yield curve steepens or flattens, it could impact net interest income in ways management may not accurately predict. • The Bank Experiences Intense Competition for Loans and Deposits. Competition among financial institutions in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans is intense. The Bank’s most direct competition for deposits has come from commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions doing business in the Bank’s areas of operation, as well as from nonbanking sources, such as money market mutual funds and corporate and government debt securities. Competition for loans comes primarily from commercial banks, savings and loan associations, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders. The Bank competes primarily on the basis of products offered, customer service and price. A number of institutions with which the Bank competes have greater assets and capital than the Bank does and, thus, may have a competitive advantage. • The Company is Subject to Substantial Regulation Which Could Adversely Affect Its Business and Operations. As a financial institution, the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, which materially affects their businesses. Statutes, regulations and policies to which the Company and the Bank are subject may be changed at any time, and the interpretation and the application of those laws and regulations by regulators is also subject to change. There can be no assurance that future changes in regulations or in their interpretation or application will not adversely affect either the Company or the Bank. The regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over banks and thrifts have under consideration a number of possible rulemaking initiatives which impact bank and thrift and bank and bank holding company capital requirements. Adoption of one or more of these proposed rules could have an adverse effect on the Company and the Bank. • Changes in Accounting Standards Could Impact Reported Earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of SHUSA’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, SHUSA could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. • The Company Relies on Third Parties for Important Products and Services. Third party vendors provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure such as loan and deposit servicing systems, internet connections and network access. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delays and expense. 15 • Framework for Managing Risks May Not be Effective in Mitigating Risk and Loss to the Company. Risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage the Company’s risk exposure. Types of risks to which the Company is subject include liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk and reputation risk, among others. The framework to manage risk, including the framework’s underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If the risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. • Disclosure Controls and Procedures Over Financial Reporting May Not Prevent or Detect All Errors or Acts of Fraud. Disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Any disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by any unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in the control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. • System Integration Risks Exist Related to the Acquisition of the Company by Santander. On January 30, 2009, the Company was acquired by Santander. Successful integration into existing businesses of Santander depends upon the integration of key systems to fully realize revenue synergies and cost savings from the transaction. By its nature, SHUSA’s businesses depend upon automated systems to record and process high volumes of transactions. Accordingly, performing system conversions may lead to business disruptions or certain errors being repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. • Reputational and Compliance Risk Exist Related to the Company’s Foreclosure Activities Please refer to Foreclosures section within Item 1—Business and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. • Compromises of the Company’s data security could materially harm the Company’s reputation and business The Company is subject to the risk of data security breaches. In the ordinary course of business, the Company’s activities include the collection, storage and transmission of certain personal and financial information from individuals, such as customers and employees. Security breaches could expose the Company to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and potential liability. The Company’s cyber security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to the Company’s or customers’ information. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to the Company’s or customers’ information. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of confidence that could potentially have an adverse effect on future business with current and potential customers. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of the Company’s security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s cyber security measures could be harmed and the Company could lose potential future business. 16 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 