Item 1A. Risk Factors We, like other financial holding companies, are subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation, many of which are outside of our direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to loan clients or other counterparties not being able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2) market risk, which is the risk of loss due to changes in the market value of assets and liabilities due to changes in market interest rates, equity prices, and credit spreads, (3) liquidity risk, which is the risk of loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to satisfy current or future commitments based on external market issues, investor and customer perception of financial strength, and events unrelated to the Company such as war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues, and (4) operational risk, which is the risk of loss due to human error, inadequate or failed internal systems and controls, violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards, and external influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters, and security risks. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider that the following important factors, among others, could materially impact our business, future results of operations, and future cash flows. Risks Relating to the Economic Environment Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Negative developments in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn. In addition, as a consequence of the recession in the United States, beginning in the latter half of 2007, business activity across a wide range of industries faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land development loans, residential real estate loans, commercial real estate loans and consumer loans. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected. In addition, the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become more difficult compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to those developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In addition, the market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio remains volatile, which may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Table of Contents 11 Further downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business. Substantially all of our real estate loans are located in West Virginia and Virginia. While we do not have any sub-prime loans, our construction and development and residential real estate loan portfolios, along with our commercial real estate loan portfolio and certain of our other loans, have been affected by the recent downturn in the residential and commercial real estate market. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market areas would affect our business. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses or defaults would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The unprecedented levels of market volatility may adversely impact our ability to access capital or our business, financial condition and results of operations. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels, adversely impacting the stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers, often without regard to their financial capabilities. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or further deteriorate, our ability to access capital or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), into law. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changes regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other things, provisions creating a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; centralizing the responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which will be responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws; permanently raising the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount to $250,000; establishing strengthened capital standards for banks and disallowing trust preferred securities as qualifying for Tier 1 capital (subject to certain grandfather provisions for existing trust preferred securities); establishing new minimum mortgage underwriting standards; granting the Federal Reserve Board the power to regulate debit card interchange fees; and implementing numerous corporate governance changes. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, thus making it difficult to assess all the effects the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the financial industry, including Summit, at this time. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our operations, require us to change certain business practices, impose on us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. We expect that operating and compliance costs will increase and could adversely affect Summit’s financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents 12 In addition, these changes may also require Summit to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements which may negatively impact Summit’s financial condition and results of operation. Summit is currently reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and assessing their probable impact on Summit and its operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to certain supervisory actions by bank supervisory authorities that could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition and the value of our common stock. On October 25, 2012, the Bank entered into a revised MOU (“Bank MOU”) which replaced the informal Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank, the FDIC, and the WV Division of Banking effective September 24, 2009 and subsequently amended on February 1, 2011. A memorandum of understanding is characterized by the regulatory authorities as an informal action that is not published or publicly available and that is used when circumstances warrant a milder form of action than a formal supervisory action, such as a formal written agreement or order. In general, the Bank MOU includes provisions substantially similar to those in the prior Bank MOU with the exception that several provisions deemed no longer applicable by the regulatory authorities were removed and a provision relative to reducing the Bank’s levels of classified assets was added. In summary, we have agreed, among other things, to address the following matters relative to the Bank: § maintaining a Board committee which monitors and promotes compliance with the provisions of the Bank MOU; § providing the Bank’s regulatory authorities with updated reports of criticized assets and/or formal workout plans for all nonperforming borrower relationships with an aggregate outstanding balance exceeding $1 million; § developing and submitting to regulatory authorities a written plan to reduce the Bank’s risk exposure in each adversely classified credit relationship in excess of $1 million and all OREO; § establishing procedures to report all loans with balances exceeding $500,000 that have credit weaknesses or that fall outside of the Bank’s policy; § annually reviewing the organizational structure and operations of the Bank’s loan department; § maintaining an adequate allowance for loan and lease losses through charges to current operating income; § reviewing overall liquidity objectives and developing and submitting to regulatory authorities plans and procedures aimed to improve liquidity and reduce reliance on volatile liabilities; § preparing comprehensive budgets and earnings forecasts for the Bank and submitting reports comparing actual performance to the budget plan; § maintaining a minimum Tier 1 Leverage Capital ratio of at least 8% and a Total Risk-based Capital ratio of at least 11%; § not paying any cash dividends without the prior written consent of the banking regulators; and, § providing quarterly progress reports to the Bank’s regulatory authorities detailing steps taken to comply with the Bank MOU. In addition to the Bank MOU, on November 6, 2009, Summit entered into an informal Memorandum of Understanding (“Holding Company MOU”) with its principal regulators, the West Virginia Division of Banking (now known as the West Virginia Division of Financial Institutions) and the FRB of Richmond. Under the terms of the Holding Company MOU, we agreed to: § promote compliance with the provisions of the Bank MOU; § suspend all cash dividends on our common stock until further notice; § not incur any additional debt, other than trade payables, without the prior written consent of the principal banking regulators; § adopt and implement a capital plan that is acceptable to the principal banking regulators and that is designed to maintain an adequate level and composition of capital protection commensurate for the risk profile of the organization; and § provide quarterly progress reports to Summit’s regulatory authorities detailing the steps taken to comply with the Holding Company MOU. Table of Contents 13 Dividends on all preferred stock, including the Series 2009 and Series 2011 preferred stock, as well as interest payments on our subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures underlying our trust preferred securities, continue to be permissible. However, such dividends and interest payments on our preferred stock and trust preferred debt are subject to future review by the Federal Reserve should we experience deterioration in our financial condition. Although dividends from the Bank are our principal source of funds to pay dividends and interest payments on our common stock, preferred stock, trust preferred debt and subordinated debt, we currently have sufficient cash on hand to continue to service our trust preferred and subordinated debt obligations as well as the expected dividend payments on our preferred stock through at least early 2015. Nevertheless, we can make no assurances that we will continue to have sufficient funds available for distributions to the holders of our preferred stock or that such dividends will continue to be permitted by our regulatory authorities. The Bank MOU and Holding Company MOU (the “MOUs”) will remain in effect until modified, terminated, lifted, suspended or set aside by the regulatory authorities. If we were unable to meet the requirements of the MOUs in a timely manner, we could become subject to additional supervisory action, including a cease and desist order. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory action, we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to further supervisory action or regulatory proceedings. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules were subject to a public comment period that has expired and there is no date set for the adoption of final rules. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. Moreover, the proposed reforms seek to eliminate trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital over a ten-year period. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Additionally, the U.S. implementation of Basel III contemplates that, for banking organizations with less than $15 billion in assets, the ability to treat trust preferred securities as tier 1 capital would be phased out over a ten-year period. Table of Contents 14 While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to Summit and Summit Community. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Summit and Summit Community could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in additional regulatory actions if Summit and Summit Community were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends. We may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions in the event that our regulatory capital levels decline. Although we and the Bank both qualified as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action as of December 31, 2012, there is no guarantee that we will not have a decline in our capital category in the future. In the event of such a capital category decline, we would be subject to increased regulatory restrictions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. If the bank is classified as undercapitalized, the bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the FDIC. Pursuant to FDICIA, an undercapitalized bank is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the FDIC of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Furthermore, if a state non-member bank is classified as undercapitalized, the FDIC may take certain actions to correct the capital position of the bank; if a bank is classified as significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, the FDIC would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions. These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital; improvements in management; limits on interest rates paid; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; termination of certain risky activities and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers. If a bank is classified as critically undercapitalized, FDICIA requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within 90 days, unless the Federal Reserve determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of FDICIA regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks. Under FDICIA, banks may be restricted in their ability to accept broker deposits, depending on their capital classification. “Well-capitalized” banks are permitted to accept broker deposits, but all banks that are not well-capitalized could be restricted from accepting such deposits. The FDIC may, on a case-by-case basis, permit banks that are adequately capitalized, such as the Bank, to accept broker deposits if the FDIC determines that acceptance of such deposits would not constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice with respect to the bank. These restrictions could materially and adversely affect our ability to access lower costs funds and thereby decrease our future earnings capacity. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. Our inability to obtain regulatory consent to accept or renew brokered deposits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern. Finally, the capital classification of a bank affects the frequency of examinations of the bank, the deposit insurance premiums paid by such bank, and the ability of the bank to engage in certain activities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Under FDICIA, the FDIC is required to conduct a full-scope, on-site examination of every bank at least once every twelve months. An exception to this rule is made, however, that provides that banks (i) with assets of less than $100.0 million, (ii) that are categorized as “well-capitalized,” (iii) that were found to be well managed and whose composite rating was outstanding and (iv) that have not been subject to a change in control during the last twelve months, need only be examined by the FDIC once every 18 months. Table of Contents 15 Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate, and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our loan portfolio subjects us to credit risk. Inherent risks in lending also include fluctuations in collateral values and economic downturns. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that our loans will not be repaid. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for estimated probable credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses totaled $17.9 million, which represents approximately 1.88% of our total loans. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore, we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that we would need to make additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses. Our methodology for the determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses for impaired loans is based on classifications of loans into various categories and the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. For non-classified loans, the estimated allowance is based on historical loss experiences as adjusted for changes in trends and conditions on at least an annual basis. In addition, on a quarterly basis, the estimated allowance for non-classified loans is adjusted for the probable effect that current environmental factors could have on the historical loss factors currently in use. While our allowance for loan losses is established in different portfolio components, we maintain an allowance that we believe is sufficient to absorb all estimated probable credit losses inherent in our portfolio. In addition, the FDIC as well as the West Virginia Division of Banking review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in our net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to grow our assets. We are subject to changes in public policy due to Health Care Reform that can adversely affect the markets for our insurance subsidiary’s products and services and our profitability. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, “Health Care Reform”) which makes broad-based changes to the U.S. health care system which could significantly affect the U.S. economy and will significantly impact the business operations and financial results of our insurance subsidiary, which markets and sells employee benefit products, including health insurance. It is reasonably possible that Health Care Reform, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. We do business with other financial institutions that could experience financial difficulty. We do business through the purchase and sale of Federal funds, check clearing and through the purchase and sale of loan participations with other financial institutions. Because these financial institutions have many risks, as do we, we could be adversely effected should one of these financial institutions experience significant financial difficulties or fail to comply with our agreements with them. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Table of Contents 16 We rely on funding sources to meet our liquidity needs, such as brokered deposits and FHLB borrowings, which are generally more sensitive to changes in interest rates and can be adversely affected by general economic conditions. We have frequently utilized as a source of funds certificates of deposit obtained through third parties that solicit funds from their customers for deposit with us, or brokered deposits. Brokered deposits, when compared to retail deposits attracted through a branch network, are generally more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets and could reduce our net interest spread and net interest margin. In addition, brokered deposit funding sources may be more sensitive to significant changes in our financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, brokered deposits totaled $190.4 million, or approximately 18.5% of our total deposits, compared to brokered deposits in the amount of $192.5 million or approximately 18.9% of our total deposits at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $59.9 million in brokered deposits, or approximately 29.6% of our total brokered deposits, mature within one year. Our ability to continue to acquire brokered deposits is subject to our ability to price these deposits at competitive levels, which may increase our funding costs, and the confidence of the market. In addition, if our capital ratios fall below the levels necessary to be considered “well-capitalized” under current regulatory guidelines, we could be restricted from using brokered deposits as a funding source. We also have borrowings with the Federal Home Loan Bank, or the FHLB. As of December 31, 2012, our FHLB borrowings maturing within one year totaled $43.0 million. If we were unable to borrow from the FHLB in the future, we may be required to seek higher cost funding sources, which could materially and adversely affect our net interest income. Summit operates in a very competitive industry and market. We face aggressive competition not only from banks, but also from other financial services companies, including finance companies and credit unions, and, to a limited degree, from other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, and consumer finance companies. A number of competitors in our market areas are larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. Our profitability depends upon our ability to attract loans and deposits. There is a risk that aggressive competition could result in our controlling a smaller share of our markets. A decline in market share could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on those properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our future earnings. Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. Our income and cash flow depend primarily on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond our control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence loan originations, purchases of investments, volumes of deposits, and rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases or decreases in interest rates or by the shape of the yield curve. Table of Contents 17 Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Our business is subject to significant government regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies, including the West Virginia Division of Banking, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of shareholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels and other aspects of our operations. The bank regulatory agencies possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. As a result, significant new legislation and regulatory reforms passed in the past three years and future legislation and government policy could adversely affect the banking industry as a whole, including our results of operations. New legislation or regulation may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to offer new products, assess fees, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including Summit Community. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In April 2011, the FDIC implemented rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act to reform the deposit insurance assessment system. The final rule redefined the assessment base used for calculating deposit insurance assessments. Specifically, the rule bases assessments on an institution’s total assets less tangible capital, as opposed to total deposits. Since the new base is larger than the prior base, the FDIC also lowered the assessment rates so that the rules would not significantly alter the total amount of revenue collected from the industry. The new assessment scale ranges from 2.5 basis points for the least risky institutions to 45 basis points for the riskiest. Either an increase in the Risk Category of Summit Community or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, the FDIC may impose special assessments in the future as a part of its restoration plan. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of existing senior management and, as we expand, to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management. Our senior executive officers have been instrumental in the development and management of our business. The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. We have not established a detailed management succession plan. Accordingly, should we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of Summit Financial Group for a qualified permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that we will be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement. If any of our senior executive officers leaves his or her respective position, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects may suffer. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business and have an adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or minimize the effect of a failure, interruption or breach in security of our communications or information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Table of Contents 18 Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setting bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other regulatory bodies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards affecting the preparation of financial statements. These changes are not within our control and could materially impact our financial statements. Our business is dependent on technology and our inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which may negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Securities Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we have stopped paying cash dividends. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiary bank, Summit Community. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Summit Community may pay to Summit. Also, Summit’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Summit Community is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on either our common stock or our Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock. The inability to receive dividends from Summit Community could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of the Bank MOU, Summit Community may pay dividends to us if they give 30 days prior notice to the FDIC and the West Virginia Division of Banking and they do not object. In addition, under the terms of the Holding Company MOU, we have suspended all cash dividends on our common stock until further notice. Dividends on all preferred stock, including the Series 2009 and Series 2011 preferred stock, as well as interest payments on subordinated notes underlying our trust preferred securities, continue to be permissible. However, no assurances can be given that such payments will be permitted in the future if we continue to experience deterioration in our financial condition. The market price for shares of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may include: § Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; § Developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; § Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our businesses and operations; § The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; § Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; § Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; § Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility; § Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance § Volatility of stock market prices and volumes § Rumors or erroneous information § Changes in market valuations of similar companies § Changes in interest rates § New developments in the banking industry § Variations in our quarterly or annual operating results § New litigation or changes in existing litigation § Regulatory actions Table of Contents 19 Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have, over the past year, and continue to be, experiencing significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our executive officers and directors own shares of our common stock, allowing management to have an impact on our corporate affairs. As of February 21, 2013 our executive officers and directors beneficially own 33.76% (computed in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 13d-3) of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers and directors will be able to impact the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to our stockholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of directors, the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies and other significant corporate transactions. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future and by the conversion of our Series 2009 or Series 2011 Preferred Stock. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. In 1998, we adopted a stock option plan (the “1998 Plan”) that provided for the granting of stock options to our directors, executive officers and other employees. Although the 1998 Plan expired in May, 2008, as of December 31, 2012, 241,700 shares of our common stock are still issuable under options granted in connection with our 1998 Plan. At our 2009 Annual Meeting of shareholders, a new officer stock option plan was approved providing for 350,000 shares of common stock to be available for issuance under the plan. As of December 31, 2012, 8,000 shares of our common stock are issuable under options granted in connection with our 2009 Plan. It is probable that the stock options will be exercised during their respective terms if the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the particular option. If the stock options are exercised, your share ownership will be diluted. In addition, our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock, but do not provide for preemptive rights to the holders of our common stock. Any authorized but unissued shares are available for issuance by our Board of Directors. As a result, if we issue additional shares of common stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes, you may be unable to maintain your pro rata ownership in Summit Financial Group. We have also issued 3,710 shares of our Series 2009 Preferred Stock and 12,000 shares of our Series 2011 Preferred Stock. The conversion of some or all of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 Preferred Stock will dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. The market price of the Series 2009 and Series 2011 preferred stock will be directly affected by the market price of our common stock, which may be volatile. To the extent that a secondary market for the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock develops, we believe that the market price of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock will be significantly affected by the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict how the shares of our common stock will trade in the future. This may result in greater volatility in the market price of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock than would be expected for nonconvertible preferred stock. The market price of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control: Table of Contents 20 § actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; § our announcements of developments related to our business; § changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; § dispositions, acquisitions and financings; § actions of our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; § fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of other companies deemed to be peers; § actions by government regulators; and § developments related to the financial services industry. Our common share price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price of such stock may not be indicative of future market prices. Changes in United States tax laws may have a detrimental impact on the after-tax return on investment. Changes in the tax law or a failure by Congress to extend or make permanent certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may adversely affect the after-tax return on investment by holders of our preferred stock or common stock. Specifically, the designation of dividends as qualified dividends currently results in a lower rate of taxation to certain taxpayers, including individuals. This provision is currently set to expire, and will no longer be available for tax years beginning after December 31, 2010. We can give no assurances that this provision will be extended or made permanent or that other detrimental changes in current tax law will not be enacted. The conversion rate of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock may not be adjusted for all dilutive events that may adversely affect the market price of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock or the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock. The number of shares of our common stock that the holders of Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock are entitled to receive upon conversion of a share of their preferred stock is subject to adjustment for certain events arising from increases in cash dividends on our common stock, dividends or distributions in common stock or other property, certain issuances of stock purchase rights, certain self tender offers, subdivisions, splits and combinations of the common stock and certain other actions by us that modify our capital structure. We will not adjust the conversion rate for other events, including offerings of common stock for cash by us or in connection with acquisitions. There can be no assurance that an event that adversely affects the value of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock, but does not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate, will not occur. Further, if any of these other events adversely affects the market price of our common stock, it may also adversely affect the market price of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock. In addition, we are not restricted from offering common stock in the future or engaging in other transactions that could dilute our common stock. The conversion of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock will dilute the appreciation of our common stock. Although our common stock may appreciate in value, the future conversion of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock will dilute such appreciation. There is no guarantee that an investor in our common stock will recognize an increase in value after the impact of the conversion of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock despite overall positive performance. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock. Our board of directors is authorized to cause us to issue additional classes or series of preferred shares without any action on the part of the shareholders. The board of directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred shares that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. Table of Contents 21 The market price of our common stock or preferred stock, including the Series 2009 and Series 2011 preferred stock, could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market after this offering or the perception that such sales could occur. The conversion of some or all of the Series 2009 or Series 2011 preferred stock will dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the outstanding shares of our common stock and the Series 2009 and Series 2011 preferred stock. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures and our subordinated debt have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. We have three statutory business trusts that were formed for the purpose of issuing mandatorily redeemable securities (the “capital securities”) for which we are obligated to third party investors and investing the proceeds from the sale of the capital securities in our junior subordinated debentures (the “debentures”). The debentures held by the trusts are their sole assets. Our subordinated debentures of these unconsolidated statutory trusts totaled approximately $19.6 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011. Distributions on the capital securities issued by the trusts are payable quarterly at the variable interest rates specified in those certain securities. The capital securities are subject to mandatory redemption in whole or in part, upon repayment of the debentures. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of the statutory trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. In 2012, our total interest payments on these junior subordinated debentures approximated $561,000. Based on current rates, our quarterly interest payment obligation on our junior subordinated debentures is approximately $130,000. The capital securities held by our three trust subsidiaries qualify as Tier 1 capital under Federal Reserve Board guidelines. In accordance with these guidelines, trust preferred securities generally are limited to 25% of Tier 1 capital elements, net of goodwill. The amount of trust preferred securities and certain other elements in excess of the limit can be included in Tier 2 capital. We have also issued $16.8 million of subordinated debt. In 2008, $10.0 million of this debt was issued to an unaffiliated financial institution, bears a variable interest rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 275 basis points, a term of 7.5 years, and is not prepayable by us within the first two and one half years. During 2009, $5.0 million was issued to an affiliate of a director of Summit, and $1.0 million and $0.8 million was issued to two unrelated parties. These 2009 issuances bear an interest rate of 10 percent per annum, a term of 10 years, and are not prepayable by us within the first five years. Like the junior subordinated debentures, the subordinated debt is senior to our common stock and we must make payments on the subordinated debt before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debt must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. The subordinated debt qualifies as Tier 2 capital under Federal Reserve Board guidelines, until the debt is within 5 years of its maturity; thereafter, the amount qualifying as Tier 2 capital is reduced by 20 percent each year until maturity. Our total interest payments on this subordinated debt in 2012 were approximately $996,000. Based upon the current rate, our quarterly interest payment obligation on this debt is approximately $244,000. Table of Contents 22 Holders of our Series 2009 and Series 2011 Preferred Stock have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. During fourth quarter 2011, we issued 12,000 shares of our Series 2011 preferred stock in the amount of $5.81 million. Also, in September 2009, we issued 3,710 shares of our Series 2009 preferred stock in the amount of $3.71 million. Our Series 2011 and Series 2009 preferred stock has rights and preferences that could adversely affect holders of our common stock. For example, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of our business, the holders of our Series 2011 and Series 2009 preferred stock are entitled to receive distributions out of our available assets before any distributions can be made to holders of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or could otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors. We also have a staggered board of directors, which means that only one-third of our Board of Directors can be replaced by stockholders at any annual meeting. Your shares are not an insured deposit. Your investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Your investment is subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment. Other Additional factors could have a negative effect on our financial performance and the value of our common stock. Some of these factors are general economic and financial market conditions, continuing consolidation in the financial services industry, new litigation or changes in existing litigation, regulatory actions, and losses. Table of Contents 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 