ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statements In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Reform Act”), the Company is hereby filing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements of the Company made by or on behalf of the Company, whether oral or written. The Company wishes to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Reform Act. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors, among others, that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements of the Company: 1. Dependence on Licenses. The Company’s trading card and sticker album businesses are highly dependent upon licensing arrangements with third parties. These licenses, which have varying expiration dates, are obtained from the various professional sports leagues, players associations and, in certain instances, the players themselves as well as from non-sports entertainment companies. The Company’s inability to renew or retain certain of these licenses, or the lack of vitality of these licenses, could materially adversely affect its future plans and results. 2. Contraction in Sports Card Industry. The sports card industry as a whole has contracted significantly over at least the last ten years. Further prolonged and material contraction in the sports card industry, whether caused by labor strife or otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company’s future plans and results. 3. New Products. The Company may be unable to produce timely, or at all, certain new planned products. The inability of the Company to produce planned products could materially adversely affect its future plans and results. 4. Returns. Approximately 68% of the Company’s fiscal 2006 sales were made on a returnable basis. Although the Company maintains returns provisions, returns considerably in excess of the Company’s provisions could materially adversely affect its future plans and results. 5. Suppliers. The Company has a single source of supply for most of its lollipop products. The loss of this supplier due to civil unrest or for any other reason could materially adversely affect the Company’s future plans and results. Additionally, failure of the new Bazooka manufacturer to supply the Company with quality products on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on the sales of Bazooka. 6. Customers. The Company has several large customers, some of which are serviced by single distributors. The loss of any of these customers or distributors could materially adversely affect the Company’s future plans and results. 10 7. International, Political and Economic Risk. There is an increase in risk generally associated with operating outside of the U.S. Events such as civil unrest, currency devaluation, political upheaval and health-related issues could materially adversely affect the Company’s future plans and results. 8. Legal Proceedings. See Item 3: Legal Proceedings for a discussion of legal matters that could materially adversely affect the Company’s future plans and results. 9. Raw materials. Raw materials required for production of the Company’s products are generally available. However, the unavailability of certain raw materials or a significant increase in their cost could materially adversely affect future plans and results. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 