ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statements In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"), the Company is hereby filing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements of the Company made by or on behalf of the Company, whether oral or written. The Company wishes to ensure that any forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements in order to maximize to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Reform Act. Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following important risk factors, among others, that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements of the Company: 1. Dependence on Licenses. The Company's trading card and sticker album businesses are highly dependent upon licensing arrangements with third parties. These licenses, which have varying expiration dates, are obtained from the various professional sports leagues, players associations and, in certain instances, the players themselves as well as from non-sports entertainment companies. The Company's inability to renew or retain certain of these licenses, or the lack of vitality of these licenses, could have a materially adverse effect on its future plans and results. 2. Contraction in Sports Card Industry. Prior to 2006, the sports card industry as a whole has contracted significantly over at least the last ten years. Further prolonged and material contraction in the sports card industry, whether caused by labor strife or otherwise, could materially adverse effect the Company's future plans and results. 3. New Products. The Company may be unable to produce timely, or at all, certain new planned products. The inability of the Company to produce planned products could have a materially adverse effect on its future plans and results. 4. Returns. Approximately 64% of the Company's fiscal 2007 sales were made on a returnable basis. Although the Company maintains returns provisions, returns considerably in excess of the Company's provisions could materially adversely effect its future plans and results. 5. Suppliers. The Company has a single source of supply for most of its lollipop products. The loss of this supplier due to civil unrest or for any other reason could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's future plans and results. Additionally, failure of the new Bazooka manufacturer to supply the Company with quality products on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on the sales of Bazooka. 6. Customers. The Company has several large customers, some of which are serviced by single distributors and some of which are sold to directly by the Company. The Company's largest customer, McLane, sells to Wal-Mart and Sam's Club, and the Company also sells directly to Wal-Mart and Sam's Club, such that approximately 37% of U.S. confectionery sales in fiscal 2007 were made, in the aggregate, to Wal-Mart and Sam's Club (directly and indirectly through McLane). The loss of any of these customers or distributors, including McLane, Wal-Mart or Sam's Club could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's future plans and results. 7. International, Political and Economic Risk. There is an increase in risk generally associated with operating outside of the U.S. Events such as civil unrest, currency devaluation, political upheaval and health-related issues could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's future plans and results. 8. Legal Proceedings. See Item 3: Legal Proceedings for a discussion of legal matters that could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's future plans and results. 9. Raw materials. Raw materials required for production of the Company's products are generally available. However, the unavailability of certain raw materials or a significant increase in their cost could have a materially adverse effect on future plans and results. 10. Competition. The Company operates in highly competitive markets with other well-established manufacturers of confectionery and sports and entertainment products. A failure of new or existing products to be favorably received by or appeal to the Company's customers and/or consumers, or a failure to retain sufficient shelf space for new and existing products, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 11. Laws and regulations; consumer preferences and health concerns. Changes in governmental laws and regulations, including food and drug laws, laws relating to advertising and marketing practices, taxation requirements and environmental laws, both in and outside the U.S., could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Additionally, consumer demographics, consumer trends and consumer health concerns, such as issues relating to obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, may change in a manner that could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. 12. Merger. There are a number of potential risks to the Company relating to the Merger transaction that could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including: the businesses of Topps suffering as a result of uncertainty surrounding the Merger, including, but not limited to, potential difficulties in employee retention, adverse effects on client or customer relationships and disruption of current plans or operations; and the diversion of Topps management's attention from ongoing business operations. While there are other risks to the Company's business related to a transaction such as the Merger, many of these risks are beyond the Company's ability to control or predict. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE 