ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks below should carefully be considered together with the other information contained in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial may also materially affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business is seasonal. The Company's mountain and lodging operations are seasonal in nature. In particular, revenue and profits for the Company's mountain and most of its lodging operations are substantially lower and historically result in losses from late spring to late fall. Conversely, peak operating seasons for GTLC, certain managed hotel properties and the Company's owned golf courses occur during the summer months while the winter season generally results in operating losses. However, revenue and profits generated by GTLC's summer operations, management fees from those managed properties and golf operations are not sufficient to fully offset the Company's off-season losses from its mountain and other lodging operations. For the year ended July 31, 2007, 79% of total combined mountain and lodging revenue was earned during the Company’s fiscal second and third quarters. In addition, the timing of major holidays can impact vacation patterns and therefore visitation at the Company's ski resorts. Operating results for any three-month period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year (see Note 16, Selected Quarterly Financial Data, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company is vulnerable to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions. The ability to attract visitors to the Company’s resorts is influenced by weather conditions and by the amount and timing of snowfall during the ski season. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect skier visits and the Company's revenue and profits. Unseasonably warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall and reduce skiable terrain which increases the cost of snowmaking and could render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions, including in areas which are not accessible by snowmaking equipment. Excessive natural snowfall may materially increase the costs incurred for grooming trails and may also make it difficult for visitors to obtain access to the Company's mountain resorts. In the past 20 years, the Company's Colorado ski resorts have averaged between 20 and 30 feet of annual snowfall and Heavenly receives average yearly snowfall of approximately 23 feet, both of which are significantly in excess of the average for United States ski resorts. However, there is no assurance that the Company's resorts will receive seasonal snowfalls near the historical average in the future. Also, the early season snow conditions and skier perceptions of early season snow conditions influence the momentum and success of the overall season. In addition, a severe and prolonged drought could affect the Company’s otherwise adequate snowmaking water supplies or increase the cost of snowmaking. Unfavorable weather conditions such as drought and forest fires can adversely affect the Company's resorts and lodging properties as vacationers tend to delay or postpone vacations if conditions differ from those that typically prevail at such resorts for a given season. There is no way for the Company to predict future weather patterns or the impact that weather patterns may have on results of operations or visitation. The Company is subject to the risk of economic downturns. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, whether national, regional or international, may decrease the discretionary spending of the Company’s guests. Actual or perceived fear of recession may also lead to decreased discretionary spending. Skiing, travel and tourism are discretionary recreational activities that can entail a relatively high cost of participation and can be adversely affected by economic slowdown or recession, which, in turn, could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. This could further be exacerbated by the fact that the Company charges some of the highest ticket prices, as well as prices for its ancillary business including ski school, in the ski industry. While pricing increases historically have not reduced demand, there can be no assurances that demand will remain price inelastic. Similarly, there can be no assurance that a decrease in the amount of discretionary spending by the public would not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company depends on a seasonal workforce. The Company's mountain and lodging operations are largely dependent on a seasonal workforce. The Company recruits worldwide to fill staffing needs each season and utilizes visas to enable the use of foreign workers. In addition, the Company manages seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. The Company cannot guarantee that material increases in the cost of securing its seasonal workforce will not be necessary in the future. In addition, the Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain the visas necessary to hire foreign workers who are an important source for the seasonal workforce. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. Terrorist acts upon the United States and acts of war (actual or threatened) could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The terrorist acts carried out against the United States on September 11, 2001 and the war with Iraq and its aftermath adversely impacted the international travel and leisure industry. Additional terrorist acts against the United States and the threat of or actual war by or upon the United States could depress the public's propensity to travel, upon which the Company's operations are highly dependent, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company faces significant competition. The ski resort and lodging industries are highly competitive. The number of people who ski in the United States (as measured in skier visits) has generally ranged between 52 million and 59 million annually over the last decade, with approximately 55.1 million visits for the 2006/2007 ski season. The factors that the Company believes are important to customers include: · proximity to population centers; · availability and cost of transportation to ski areas; · ease of travel to ski areas (including direct flights by major airlines); · pricing of lift tickets and the number, quality and price of related ancillary services (ski school, dining and retail/rental), amenities and lodging; · snowmaking facilities; · type and quality of skiing and snowboarding offered; · duration of the ski season; · weather conditions; and · reputation. The Company has many competitors for its ski vacationers, including other major resorts in Colorado, Lake Tahoe and other major destination ski areas worldwide. The Company’s destination guests can choose from any of these alternatives, as well as non-skiing vacation destinations around the world. In addition, other forms of leisure such as sporting events and participation in other competing indoor and outdoor recreational activities are available to potential guests. RockResorts hotels and the Company’s other hotels compete with numerous other hotel companies that may have greater financial resources than does the Company and that may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to promotion of their offerings than the Company . The Company believes that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued capital investment by the Company in its resorts. The Company cannot assure that it will have sufficient resources to make the necessary capital investments to do so, and the Company cannot assure that it will be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. The Company’s future acquisitions might not be successful. Historically, the Company has acquired certain ski resorts and other destination resorts and hotel properties, as well as developable land in proximity to these resorts. The Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to continue to successfully integrate and manage these acquired properties profitably or increase its profits from these operations. The Company continually evaluates potential acquisitions and intends to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be significant. The Company would face various risks from additional acquisitions, including: · inability to integrate acquired businesses into the Company’s operations; · diversion of the Company’s management’s attention; · potential increased debt leverage; · litigation arising from acquisition activity; and · unanticipated problems or liabilities. In addition, the Company runs the risk that any new acquisitions may fail to perform in accordance with expectations, and that estimates of the costs of improvements for such properties may prove inaccurate. The Company’s future real estate development plans might not be successful. The Company has significant development plans for its properties and/or operations. The Company could experience significant difficulties initiating or completing these projects, due to among other things; · adverse changes in real estate markets; · escalation in construction costs due to price increases in commodities, unforeseen conditions, inadequate design or drawings, or other causes; · difficulty in meeting pre-sale targets; · difficulty in receiving the necessary regulatory approvals; · difficulty in obtaining qualified contractors or subcontractors; and · unanticipated incremental remediation costs related to design and construction issues. The Company’s real estate development plans are designed to make the Company’s resorts attractive to its guests and to maintain competitiveness. If the Company is not successful in implementing its development plans, its guests may choose to go to other resorts that they perceive have better amenities and the Company’s results of operations could be materially affected. Future changes in the real estate market could affect the value of the Company’s investments. The Company has extensive holdings of real property at its resorts throughout Summit and Eagle Counties in Colorado and in Teton County, Wyoming. The Company plans to make significant additional investments in developing property at all of its mountain resorts. The value of the Company’s real estate property and the revenue from related development activities may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: · national and local economic climate; · local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area); · attractiveness of the properties to prospective purchasers and tenants; · competition from other available property or space; · the Company’s ability to obtain adequate insurance; · increased construction costs, project difficulties or delays; · government regulations and changes in real estate, environmental, zoning or tax laws; · interest rate levels and the availability of financing; and · potential liabilities under environmental and other laws. The Company may not be able to fund resort capital expenditures and investment in real estate. The Company expects to continue making substantial resort capital expenditures and investments in real estate development. The Company currently anticipates resort capital expenditures (primarily related to the Mountain and Lodging segments) will be approximately $95 million to $100 million for calendar year 2007. Based on the status of several specific real estate projects, the Company will continue to invest significant amounts in real estate over the next several years and currently anticipates real estate investments to be approximately $325 million to $345 million for calendar year 2007. The Company’s ability to fund these investments will depend on its ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and/or its ability to borrow from third parties. The Company cannot make assurances that its operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs, or that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all. The Company’s ability to generate cash flow and to obtain third-party financing will depend upon many factors, including: · the Company’s future operating performance; · general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting the resort industry, the ski industry and the general capital markets; · the Company’s ability to hire and retain employees at reasonable cost; · the Company’s ability to meet its pre-sell targets on its vertical real estate development projects; · competition; and · legislative and regulatory matters affecting the Company’s operations and business. The Company could finance future expenditures from any combination of the following sources: · cash flow from operations; · non-recourse, sale-leaseback or other financing; · bank borrowings; · public offerings of debt or equity; and · private placements of debt or equity. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to obtain adequate third-party financing could cause the Company to delay or abandon certain development plans which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. The Company relies on government permits. Certain of the Company's resort operations require permits and approvals from certain Federal, state, and local authorities, in addition to the Forest Service and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers approvals. Virtually all of the Company’s ski trails and related activities at Vail, Breckenridge, Keystone and Heavenly and a majority of Beaver Creek are located on Federal land. The Forest Service has granted the Company permits to use these lands, but maintains the right to review and approve many operational matters, as well as the location, design and construction of improvements in these areas. Currently, the Company’s permits expire December 31, 2029 for Breckenridge, October 31, 2031 for Vail, December 31, 2032 for Keystone, December 31, 2038 for Beaver Creek and May 1, 2042 for Heavenly. The Forest Service can terminate most of these permits if, in its opinion, such termination is required in the public interest. A termination of any of the Company’s permits could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business and operations. In order to undertake improvements and new development, the Company must apply for permits and other approvals. These efforts, if unsuccessful, could impact the Company’s expansion efforts. Furthermore, Congress may materially increase the fees the Company pays to the Forest Service for use of these Federal lands. The Company is subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s operations are subject to a variety of Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, land use, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of natural resources such as wetlands. For example, future expansions of certain of the Company’s ski facilities must comply with applicable forest plans approved under the National Forest Management Act or local zoning requirements. The Company’s facilities are subject to risks associated with mold and other indoor building contaminants. From time to time, the Company’s operations are subject to inspections by environmental regulators or other regulatory agencies. The Company is also subject to worker health and safety requirements. The Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with applicable material environmental, health and safety requirements. However, the Company’s efforts to comply do not eliminate the risk that the Company may be held liable, incur fines or be subject to claims for damages, and that the amount of any liability, fines, damages or remediation costs may be material for, among other things, the presence or release of regulated materials at, on or emanating from properties the Company now or formerly owned or operated, newly discovered environmental impacts or contamination at or from any of its properties, or changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement. The high fixed cost structure of ski resort operations. The cost structure of ski resort operations is largely fixed (with the exception of certain variable expenses including Forest Service fees, credit card fees, retail/rental operations, ski school labor and dining operations) and any unforeseen material declines in the economy, elevated geopolitical uncertainties and/or significant changes in historical snowfall patterns as well as other risk factors discussed herein could adversely effect revenue. As such, the Company’s margin, profits and cash flows may be materially reduced due to declines in revenue given the Company’s high fixed cost structure. The Company is subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. The Company is, from time to time, subject to various asserted or unasserted legal proceedings and claims. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. While management believes the Company has adequate insurance coverage and accrues loss contingencies for all known matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated, the Company cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. For a more detailed discussion of the Company’s legal proceedings see Legal Proceedings under Item 3 and Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company is subject to the risks of brand concentration. The Company is subject to the potential risks associated with concentration of its hotels under the RockResorts brand and the brand image associated with each of its ski areas. A negative public image or other adverse event which becomes associated with one of the Company’s brands could adversely affect its revenue and profitability. If the Company does not retain its key personnel, its business may suffer. The success of the Company’s business is heavily dependent on the leadership of its key management personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer, its President of its Mountain Division, its Chief Operating Officer of RockResorts, its President of VRDC, its General Counsel and each of its Senior Vice Presidents. If any of these persons were to leave the Company, it could be difficult to replace them, and the Company’s business could be harmed. The Company does not maintain “key-man” life insurance on any of its employees. The Company is subject to accounting regulations and uses certain accounting estimates and judgments that may differ significantly from actual results. Implementation of existing and future legislation, rulings, standards and interpretations from the FASB or other regulatory bodies could affect the presentation of the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures. Future regulatory requirements could significantly change the Company’s current accounting practices and disclosures. Such changes in the presentation of the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures could change an investor’s interpretation or perception of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company uses many methods, estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies (see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead the Company to change its methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations. Risks Relating to The Company’s Capital Structure The Company’s stock price is highly volatile. The market price of the Company’s stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond its control: · quarterly variations in the Company’s operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · change in valuations, including the Company’s future real estate developments; · changes in the overall travel and leisure industry; · changes in expectations as to the Company’s future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or such guidance provided by the Company; · announcements of new services by the Company or its competitors; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of the Company’s securities; · trading and volume fluctuations; · changes in the weather; · seasonal fluctuations; · other risk factors as discussed above; and · other unforeseen events. Stock markets in the United States often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as acts of terrorism, a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s stock. The Company has not historically paid cash dividends to its common stockholders. Other than a rights distribution in October 1996 which gave each stockholder of record the right to receive $2.44 per share of common stock held, the Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its shares of common stock. Payment of any future dividends on its common stock will depend upon the Company’s earnings and capital requirements, the terms of its debt instruments and preferred stock and other factors the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Anti-takeover provisions affecting the Company could prevent or delay a change of control that is beneficial to its shareholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, provisions of its debt instruments and other agreements and provisions of applicable Delaware law and applicable Federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that holders of the Company’s securities may consider favorable. These provisions could: · delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company; · discourage bids for the Company’s securities at a premium over the market price; · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, the Company’s securities; or · impede the ability of the holders of the Company’s securities to change its management. The Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect its financial health and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations. The Company’s level of indebtedness could have important consequences even though the Company has minimal principal payments due over the next five years (excluding payments of amounts due under non-recourse real estate financings which will be made utilizing proceeds from the applicable real estate closings). For example, it could: · make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations; · increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on the Company’s indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, real estate developments, marketing efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which the Company operates; · place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and · limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds. There are restrictions imposed by the terms of the Company’s indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the Company’s senior credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) and the Indenture, dated as of January 29, 2004 among the Company, the guarantors therein and the Bank of New York, as Trustee (“Indenture”), governing the 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (“6.75% Notes”) may adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s long-term best interests. For example, the Indenture and the Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company, including restrictions on its ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · pay dividends, repurchase the Company’s stock and make other restricted payments; · create liens; · make investments; · engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · transfer all or substantially all of the Company’s assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and · make capital expenditures. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will meet the financial covenants contained in its Credit Facility. If the Company breaches any of these restrictions or covenants, or suffers a material adverse change which restricts its borrowing ability under its Credit Facility, the Company would not be able to borrow funds thereunder without a waiver, which inability could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a breach, if uncured, could cause a default under the 6.75% Notes and the Company’s other debt. The Company’s indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable. The Company may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments, including payments on the 6.75% Notes. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the Indenture do not fully prohibit the Company from doing so. The Company’s Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $226.0 million as of July 31, 2007. If new debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, the related risks that the Company faces could intensify. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 