ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks below should carefully be considered together with the other information contained in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deem to be immaterial may also materially affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business is seasonal. The Company's Mountain and Lodging operations are seasonal in nature. In particular, revenue and profits for the Company's Mountain and most of its Lodging operations are substantially lower and historically result in losses from late spring to late fall. Conversely, peak operating seasons for GTLC, certain managed hotel properties and the Company's owned golf courses occur during the summer months while the winter season generally results in operating losses. However, revenue and profits generated by GTLC's summer operations, management fees from those managed properties and golf operations are not sufficient to fully offset the Company's off-season losses from its Mountain and other Lodging operations. For the year ended July 31, 2006, 78.9% of total combined Mountain and Lodging revenue was earned during the second and third quarters. In addition, the timing of major holidays can impact vacation patterns and therefore visitation at the Company's ski resorts. Operating results for any three-month period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year (see Note 16, Selected Quarterly Financial Data, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The Company is vulnerable to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions. The ability to attract visitors to the Company’s resorts is influenced by weather conditions and by the amount and timing of snowfall during the ski season. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect skier visits and the Company's revenues and profits. Unseasonably warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall, which increases the cost of snowmaking and could render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions. Excessive natural snowfall may materially increase the costs incurred for grooming trails and may also make it difficult for visitors to obtain access to the Company's mountain resorts. In the past 20 years, the Company's Colorado ski resorts have averaged between 20 and 30 feet of annual snowfall and Heavenly receives average yearly snowfall of between 25 and 35 feet, significantly in excess of the average for United States ski resorts. However, there is no assurance that the Company's resorts will receive seasonal snowfalls near the historical average in the future. Also, the early season snow conditions and skier perceptions of early season snow conditions influence the momentum and success of the overall season. In addition, a severe and prolonged drought could affect the Company’s otherwise adequate snowmaking water supplies or increase the cost of snowmaking. Unfavorable weather conditions such as drought and tornadoes can adversely affect the Company's other resorts and lodging properties as vacationers tend to delay or postpone vacations if weather conditions differ from those that typically prevail at such resorts for a given season. There is no way for the Company to predict future weather patterns or the impact that weather patterns may have on results of operations or visitation. To some extent, the Company mitigates against impacts from weather through the sales of season passes, as most weather sensitive visitors to the Company’s ski resorts tend to be from the Colorado Front Range, to which the Company markets season pass products in Colorado. Additionally, the Company has invested in snowmaking upgrades in an effort to address the inconsistency of early season snowfall. The Company is subject to the risk of economic downturns. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, whether national, regional or international, may decrease the discretionary spending of the Company’s customers. Actual or perceived fear of recession may also lead to decreased discretionary spending. Skiing, travel and tourism are discretionary recreational activities that can entail a relatively high cost of participation and can be adversely affected by economic slowdown or recession, which, in turn, could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. This could further be exacerbated by the fact that the Company charges some of the highest ticket prices in the ski industry. While pricing increases historically have not reduced demand, there can be no assurances that demand will remain price inelastic. Similarly, there can be no assurance that a decrease in the amount of discretionary spending by the public would not have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company depends on a seasonal workforce. The Company's Mountain and Lodging operations are largely dependent on a seasonal workforce. The Company recruits worldwide to fill staffing needs each season and utilizes visas to enable the use of foreign workers. In addition, the Company manages seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. While the Company does not currently foresee the need to increase seasonal wages to attract employees, the Company cannot guarantee that such an increase will not be necessary in the future. In addition, the Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain the visas necessary to hire foreign workers who are an important source for the seasonal workforce. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations; however, the Company is unable to predict with any certainty whether such situations will arise or the potential impact on results of operations. Terrorist acts upon the United States and acts of war (actual or threatened) could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The terrorist acts carried out against the United States on September 11, 2001 and the war with Iraq and its aftermath adversely impacted the international travel and leisure industry. Additional terrorist acts against the United States and the threat of or actual war by or upon the United States could depress the public's propensity to travel, upon which the Company's operations are highly dependent, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company faces significant competition. The ski resort and lodging industries are highly competitive. The number of people who ski in the United States (as measured in skier visits) has generally ranged between 52 million and 59 million annually over the last decade, with approximately 58.9 million visits for the 2005/2006 ski season. The factors that the Company believes are important to customers include: · proximity to population centers; · availability and cost of transportation to ski areas; · ease of travel to ski areas (including direct flights by major airlines); · pricing of products and services; · snowmaking facilities; · type and quality of skiing offered; · duration of the ski season; · weather conditions; · number, quality and price of related services and lodging and · reputation. The Company has many competitors for its ski vacationers, including other major resorts in Colorado, Lake Tahoe and other major destination ski areas worldwide. The Company’s destination guests can choose from any of these alternatives, as well as non-skiing vacation destinations around the world. In addition, other forms of leisure such as sporting events and participation in other competing indoor and outdoor recreational activities are available to potential guests. RockResorts hotels and the Company’s other hotels compete with numerous other hotel companies that may have greater financial resources than the Company does and that may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to promotion of their offerings than the Company can. The Company believes that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment by the Company in its resorts. The Company cannot assure that it will have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to do so, and the Company cannot assure that it will be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. The Company’s future acquisitions might not be successful. Historically, the Company has acquired certain ski resorts and other destination resorts and hotel properties, as well as developable land in proximity to these resorts. The Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to continue to successfully integrate and manage these acquired properties profitably or increase its profits from these operations. The Company continually evaluates potential acquisitions and intends to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be significant. The Company would face various risks from additional acquisitions, including: · inability to integrate acquired businesses into the Company’s operations; · diversion of the Company’s management’s attention; · potential increased debt leverage and · unanticipated problems or liabilities. In addition, the Company runs the risk that any new acquisitions may fail to perform in accordance with expectations, and that estimates of the costs of improvements for such properties may prove inaccurate. The Company’s future development plans might not be successful. The Company has significant development plans for its operations. Specifically, the Company’s development plans include: · continued work on the Vail redevelopment, including the redevelopment of the LionsHead base area and other land holdings located within the Town of Vail; · the Jackson Hole area residential and golf development; · expansion of the Red Sky Ranch residential development; · The Peaks of Breckenridge development and · additional planning and development projects in and around each of the Company’s resorts. We could experience significant difficulties initiating or completing these projects, including: · delays in completion; · inaccurate cost estimates; · difficulty in meeting pre-sale targets; · difficulty in receiving the necessary regulatory approvals and · difficulty in obtaining qualified subcontractors. The Company mitigates the risk associated with vertical development by utilizing the following: (1) the Company generally pre-sells residential units and requires non-refundable deposits of at least 15% of the sales prices. Pre-sales require buyers to provide earnest money deposits to the Company, which would be refundable to the buyer should the Company fail to complete the related development. Pre-sale targets are set by management. Generally, the Company strives to meet its pre-sale targets in the period between the commencement of the marketing of a development and the planned commencement of construction, (2) the Company attempts to secure guaranteed maximum price contracts with its general contractors which helps protect the Company against rising costs of construction and (3) the Company generally uses non-recourse financing for its vertical development projects that only allow for recourse against the specific project’s assets. All of these real estate development plans are designed to make the Company’s resorts attractive to its clients and to maintain competitiveness. If the Company is not successful in implementing its development plans, its clients may choose to go to other resorts that they perceive have better amenities and the Company’s results of operations could be materially affected. The Company may not be able to fund development plans. The Company’s ability to fund development plans will depend on its ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and/or its ability to borrow from third parties. The Company cannot make assurances that its operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs, or that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all. The Company’s ability to generate cash flow and to obtain third-party financing will depend upon many factors, including: · the Company’s future operating performance; · general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting the resort industry, the ski industry and the real estate project financing market; · the Company’s ability to hire and retain employees at reasonable cost; · the Company’s ability to meet its pre-sell targets on its vertical real estate development projects; · competition and · legislative and regulatory matters affecting the Company’s operations and business. Some of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to obtain adequate third-party financing could cause the Company to delay or abandon certain development plans which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. The Company relies on government permits. Certain of the Company's Resort operations require permits and approvals from certain federal, state, and local authorities, in addition to the Forest Service and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers approvals. Virtually all of the Company’s ski trails and related activities at Vail, Breckenridge, Keystone and Heavenly and a majority of Beaver Creek are located on federal land. The Forest Service has granted the Company permits to use these lands, but maintains the right to review and approve many operational matters, as well as the location, design and construction of improvements in these areas. Currently, the Company’s permits expire December 31, 2029 for Breckenridge, October 31, 2031 for Vail, December 31, 2032 for Keystone, December 31, 2038 for Beaver Creek and May 1, 2042 for Heavenly. The Forest Service can terminate most of these permits if, in its opinion, such termination is required in the public interest. A termination of any of the Company’s permits could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business and operations. The Company has applied for several new permits or other approvals for improvements and new development. These efforts, if not successful, could impact the Company’s expansion efforts as currently contemplated. Furthermore, Congress may increase the fees the Company pays to the Forest Service for use of these federal lands. The Company is subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the ordinary course of business. The Company’s operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, land use, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of natural resources such as wetlands. For example, future expansions of certain of the Company’s ski facilities must comply with applicable forest plans approved under the National Forest Management Act or local zoning requirements. The Company’s facilities are subject to risks associated with mold and other indoor building contaminants. From time to time, the Company’s operations are subject to inspections by environmental regulators or other regulatory agencies. The Company is also subject to worker health and safety requirements. The Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with applicable material environmental, health and safety requirements. However, the Company’s efforts to comply do not remove the risk that the Company may be held liable, incur fines or be subject to claims for damages, and that the amount of any liability, fines, damages or remediation costs may be material for, among other things, the presence or release of regulated materials at, on or emanating from properties the Company now or formerly owned or operated, newly discovered environmental impacts or contamination at or from any of its properties, or changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement. For a more detailed discussion of the Company’s mold remediation efforts see Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company is subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. The Company is, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. While management believes the Company has adequate insurance coverage and accrues loss contingencies for all known matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated, the Company cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. For a more detailed discussion of the Company’s legal proceedings see Legal Proceedings under Item 3 and Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company is subject to the risks of brand concentration. The Company is subject to the potential risks associated with concentration of its hotels under the RockResorts brand and the brand image associated with each of its ski areas. A negative public image or other adverse event which becomes associated with one of the Company’s brands could adversely affect its revenues and profitability. The Company’s future growth and real estate development requires additional capital whose availability is not assured. The Company intends to make significant investments in its resorts to maintain its competitive position. The Company spent approximately $88.9 million, $80.0 million and $63.0 million in the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, on capital expenditures (primarily related to the Mountain and Lodging segments) and the Company has made investments of approximately $129.7 million, $72.2 million and $27.8 million in the years ended July 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in its real estate developments. The Company expects to continue making substantial resort capital expenditures and investments in real estate development. The Company currently anticipates capital expenditures (primarily related to the Mountain and Lodging segments) will be approximately $70 million to $80 million for calendar 2006. Based on the status of several specific real estate projects, the Company will continue to invest significant amounts in real estate over the next several years and currently anticipates real estate investments to be approximately $195 million to $205 million for calendar 2006. The Company could finance future expenditures from any of the following sources: · cash flow from operations; · non-recourse, sale-leaseback or other financing; · bank borrowings; · public offerings of debt or equity; · private placements of debt or equity or · some combination of the above. The Company might not be able to obtain financing for future expenditures on favorable terms or at all. Future changes in the real estate market could affect the value of the Company’s investments. The Company has extensive real estate holdings near its mountain resorts and in Wyoming. The Company plans to make significant additional investments in developing property at all of its resorts. The value of the Company’s real estate property and the revenue from related development activities may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: · national and local economic climate; · local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area); · attractiveness of the properties to prospective purchasers and tenants; · competition from other available property or space; · the Company’s ability to obtain adequate insurance; · increased construction costs, project difficulties or delays; · government regulations and changes in real estate, environmental, zoning or tax laws; · interest rate levels and the availability of financing and · potential liabilities under environmental and other laws. If the Company does not retain its key personnel, its business may suffer. The success of the Company’s business is heavily dependent on the leadership of its key management personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer, its Co-Presidents of its Mountain Division, its General Counsel, each of the Senior Vice Presidents, its Vice President of RockResorts, its President of VRDC and its Chief Information Officer. If any of these persons were to leave the Company, it could be difficult to replace them, and the Company’s business could be harmed. The Company does not have “key-man” life insurance. The Company is subject to accounting regulations and uses certain accounting estimates and judgments that may differ significantly from actual results. Implementation of existing and future legislation, rulings, standards and interpretations from the FASB or other regulatory bodies could affect the presentation of the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures. Future regulatory requirements could significantly change the Company’s current accounting practices and disclosures. Such changes in the presentation of the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures could change an investor’s interpretation or perception of the Company’s financial position and results of operations. For example, due to the adoption of SFAS 123R, the Company's operating expenses have increased by $6.1 million for the year ended July 31, 2006, as compared to the previous year, after considering the change in the Company's compensation strategy to issue a portion of its stock-based compensation as restricted stock and stock-settled stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) to certain levels of employees. The Company cannot predict the impact to future operating results of expensing stock-based compensation as the expense is predicated on the amount and type of future stock-based compensation awards granted and the fair value of those awards to be determined at the time of grant. The Company uses many methods, estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies (see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead the Company to change its methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations. Risks Relating to The Company’s Capital Structure Future sales of shares of the Company’s common stock could depress the price of the common stock. Future sales of common stock by the Company or its existing shareholders could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Company’s common stock. As of July 31, 2006, the Company had 39,036,282 shares of common stock issued and 1,976,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity compensation awards. As of July 31, 2006, the Company had 675,000 vested stock options and SARs, 1,108,000 unvested stock options and SARs that may be sold in the future and 193,000 unvested restricted stock awards. The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, that future sales of such restricted shares and the shares issuable upon exchange of stock options and SARs, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the common stock from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through an offering of its equity securities. The Company’s stock price is highly volatile. The market price of the Company’s stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond its control: · quarterly variations in the Company’s operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to the Company’s future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or such guidance provided by the Company; · announcements of new services by the Company or its competitors; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of the Company’s securities; · trading and volume fluctuations; · changes in the weather; · seasonal fluctuations; · other risk factors as discussed above and · other unforeseen events. Stock markets in the United States often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as acts of terrorism, a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s stock. The Company has not historically paid cash dividends to its common stockholders. Other than a rights distribution in October 1996 which gave each stockholder of record the right to receive $2.44 per share of common stock held, the Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its shares of common stock. Payment of any future dividends on common stock will depend upon the Company’s earnings and capital requirements, the terms of its debt instruments and preferred stock and other factors the board of directors considers appropriate. Anti-takeover provisions affecting the Company could prevent or delay a change of control that is beneficial to its shareholders. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, provisions of its debt instruments and other agreements and provisions of applicable Delaware law and applicable federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that holders of the Company’s securities may consider favorable. These provisions could: · delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company; · discourage bids for the Company’s securities at a premium over the market price; · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, the Company’s securities or · impede the ability of the holders of the Company’s securities to change its management. The Company’s indebtedness could adversely affect its financial health and prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations. The Company’s level of indebtedness ($531.2 million as of July 31, 2006) could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations; · increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on the Company’s indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, real estate developments, marketing efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which the Company operates; · place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt and · limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional funds. There are restrictions imposed by the terms of the Company’s indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the Company’s senior credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) and the Indenture, dated as of January 29, 2004 among the Company, the guarantors therein and the Bank of New York, as Trustee (“Indenture”), governing the 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (“6.75% Notes”) may adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in the Company’s long-term best interests. For example, the Indenture and the Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Company, including restrictions on its ability to, among other things, · incur additional debt; · pay dividends, repurchase the Company’s stock and make other restricted payments; · create liens; · make investments; · engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · transfer all or substantially all of the Company’s assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions and · make capital expenditures. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will meet the financial covenants contained in its Credit Facility. If the Company breaches any of these restrictions or covenants, or suffers a material adverse change which restricts its borrowing ability under its Credit Facility, the Company would not be able to borrow funds thereunder without a waiver, which inability could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a breach, if uncured, could cause a default under the 6.75% Notes and the Company’s other debt. The Company’s indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable. The Company may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments, including payments on the 6.75% Notes. The Company may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the Indenture do not fully prohibit the Company from doing so. The Company’s Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $323.4 million as of July 31, 2006. If new debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, the related risks that the Company faces could intensify. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 