ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described below should carefully be considered together with the other information contained in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the risk of a prolonged economic downturn including continued adverse affects on the overall travel and leisure related industries. The economic recession that has affected the U.S. and global economies, the tightened credit markets and eroded consumer confidence had a negative impact on overall trends in the travel and leisure industries and on our results of operations for Fiscal 2009. As a result of the economic downturn we experienced, among other items: a decrease in overall visitation at our resorts, primarily as a result of decreased visitation from Destination guests; a significant decrease in overall guest spending on ancillary services including ski school, dining and retail/rental; and a change in booking trends such that guest reservations were made much closer to the actual date of stay. We cannot predict at what level these negative trends will continue, worsen or improve and the ultimate impact it will have on our future results of operations. The actual or perceived fear of the extent of the recession could also lead to continued decreased spending by our guests. Skiing, travel and tourism are discretionary recreational activities that can entail a relatively high cost of participation and is adversely affected by economic slowdown or recession. This could further be exacerbated by the fact that we charge some of the highest prices for our lift tickets and ancillary services in the ski industry. In the event of a further decrease in visitation and overall guest spending we may be required to offer a higher amount of discounts and incentives than we have historically. Leisure and business travel are particularly susceptible to various factors outside of our control, including terrorism, the uncertainty of military conflicts, outbreaks of contagious diseases and the cost and availability of travel options. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our guests to travel. Acts of terrorism, the spread of contagious diseases, regional political events and developments in military conflicts in areas of the world from which we draw our guests could depress the public’s propensity to travel and cause severe disruptions in both domestic and international air travel and consumer discretionary spending, which could reduce the number of visitors to our resorts and have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Many of our guests travel by air and the impact of higher prices for commercial airline services and availability of air services could cause a decrease in visitation by Destination guests to our resorts. Also, many of our guests travel by vehicle and higher gasoline prices could adversely impact our guests’ willingness to travel to our resorts. Higher cost of travel may also affect the amount that guests are willing to spend at our resorts and could negatively impact our revenue particularly for lodging, ski school, dining and retail/rental. Our business is highly seasonal. Our mountain and lodging operations are highly seasonal in nature. In particular, revenue and profits from our mountain and most of our lodging operations are substantially lower and historically result in losses from late spring to late fall. Conversely, peak operating seasons for GTLC, certain managed hotel properties and our golf courses occur during the summer months while the winter season generally results in operating losses. Revenue and profits generated by GTLC's summer operations, management fees from certain managed properties, certain other lodging properties and golf operations are not nearly sufficient to fully offset our off-season losses from our mountain and other lodging operations. For Fiscal 2009, 79% of total combined Mountain and Lodging segment net revenue was earned during our fiscal second and third quarters. In addition, the timing of major holidays can impact vacation patterns and therefore visitation at our ski resorts. If we were to experience an adverse event or realized a significant deterioration in our operating results during our peak periods (our fiscal second and third quarters) we would be unable to fully recover any significant declines due to the seasonality of our business. Operating results for any three-month period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year (see Note 16, Selected Quarterly Financial Data, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are vulnerable to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters. The ability to attract visitors to our resorts is influenced by weather conditions and by the amount and timing of snowfall during the ski season. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect skier visits and our revenue and profits. Unseasonably warm weather may result in inadequate natural snowfall and reduce skiable terrain which increases the cost of snowmaking and could render snowmaking wholly or partially ineffective in maintaining quality skiing conditions, including in areas which are not accessible by snowmaking equipment. In addition, a severe and prolonged drought could affect our otherwise adequate snowmaking water supplies or increase the cost of snowmaking. Excessive natural snowfall may materially increase the costs incurred for grooming trails and may also make it difficult for visitors to obtain access to our mountain resorts. In the past 20 years, our ski resorts have averaged between 20 and 30 feet of annual snowfall which is significantly in excess of the average for United States ski resorts. However, there is no assurance that our resorts will receive seasonal snowfalls near the historical average in the future. Also, the early season snow conditions and skier perceptions of early season snow conditions influence the momentum and success of the overall season. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect our resorts and lodging properties as vacationers tend to delay or postpone vacations if conditions differ from those that typically prevail at such resorts for a given season. There is no way for us to predict future weather patterns or the impact that weather patterns may have on our results of operations or visitation. A severe natural disaster, such as a forest fire, may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of guests who visit our resorts in affected areas. Damage to our properties could take a long time to repair and there is no guarantee that we would have adequate insurance to cover the costs of repair. Furthermore, such a disaster may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties or require evacuations and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. The ability to attract visitors to our resorts is also influenced by the aesthetics and natural beauty of the outdoor environment where our resorts are located. A severe forest fire or other severe impacts from naturally occurring events could negatively impact the natural beauty of our resorts and have a long-term negative impact on our overall guest visitation as it would take several years for the environment to recover. We face significant competition. The ski resort and lodging industries are highly competitive. The number of people who ski in the United States (as measured in skier visits) has generally ranged between 52 million and 61 million annually over the last decade, with approximately 57.4 million visits for the 2008/2009 ski season. The factors that we believe are important to customers include: · proximity to population centers; · availability and cost of transportation to ski areas; · ease of travel to ski areas (including direct flights by major airlines); · pricing of lift tickets and/or season passes and the number, quality and price of related ancillary services (ski school, dining and retail/rental), amenities and lodging; · snowmaking facilities; · type and quality of skiing and snowboarding offered; · duration of the ski season; · weather conditions; and · reputation. We have many competitors for our ski vacationers, including other major resorts in Colorado, the Lake Tahoe area and other major destination ski areas worldwide. Our guests can choose from any of these alternatives, as well as non-skiing vacation destinations around the world. In addition, other forms of leisure such as sporting events and participation in other competing indoor and outdoor recreational activities are available to potential guests. RockResorts hotels and our other hotels compete with numerous other hotel companies that may have greater financial resources than we do and they may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to promotion of their offerings than us. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require us to make continued capital investment in our resorts. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources to make the necessary capital investments to do so, and we cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. The high fixed cost structure of ski resort operations can result in significantly lower margins if revenues decline. The cost structure of ski resort operations is primarily fixed, with variable expenses including, but not limited to, Forest Service fees, other resort related fees, credit card fees, retail/rental operations, ski school labor and dining operations. Any material declines in the economy, elevated geopolitical uncertainties and/or significant changes in historical snowfall patterns, as well as other risk factors discussed herein could adversely affect revenue. As such, our margins, profits and cash flows may be materially reduced due to declines in revenue given our high fixed cost structure. In addition, increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses included in our fixed cost structure may also reduce our margin, profits and cash flows. Our future real estate development projects might not be successful. We have significant development plans for our properties and/or operations. We could experience significant difficulties in initiating or completing these projects, due to among other things: · sustained deterioration in real estate markets; · escalation in construction costs due to price increases in commodities, unforeseen conditions, inadequate design or drawings, or other causes; · difficulty in selling units or the ability of buyers to obtain necessary funds to close on units; · work stoppages; · weather interferences; · shortages in obtaining materials; · difficulty in financing real estate development projects; · difficulty in receiving the necessary regulatory approvals; · difficulty in obtaining qualified contractors or subcontractors; and · unanticipated incremental remediation costs related to design and construction issues. Our real estate development projects are designed to make our resorts attractive to our guests and to maintain competitiveness. If these projects are not successful, in addition to not realizing intended profits from the real estate developments, our guests may choose to go to other resorts that they perceive have better amenities and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There are significant risks associated with our current real estate projects under development, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or anticipated cash flows from these projects. We currently have two real estate projects under development, One Ski Hill Place in Breckenridge and The Ritz-Carlton Residences, Vail. We have increased risk associated with selling and closing units for these projects as a result of the instability in the capital and credit markets and a slowdown in the overall real estate market. For instance, we may have difficulty selling units due to a reduction in demand or oversupply and, as a result we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate. Furthermore, given the current economic climate, certain buyers may be unable to close on their units due to a reduction in funds available to buyers and/or decreases in mortgage availability, or certain buyers who have entered into purchase and sales contracts with us may attempt to challenge the legality of the contracts in an effort to invalidate their purchase commitment and obtain a refund of their deposit. We are currently self funding the development for these two projects and estimate to incur between $190 million and $210 million in cash expenditures subsequent to July 31, 2009 to complete these projects which will cause a decline in future cash being generated from operating activities, potentially requiring us to borrow under the revolver component of our senior credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) from time to time, which would increase our leverage until we close and receive proceeds from the sale of units from these projects. As such, due to the overall macro-economic environment, the ensuing deterioration in real estate markets and the tightening of credit markets, among other factors, there is no assurance that units will be sold and/or closed upon completion of these projects which could increase our leverage, including related interest costs, for a prolonged period of time which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to fund resort capital expenditures and investment in real estate. In addition to the self funding of real estate under development, we currently anticipate resort capital expenditures (primarily related to the Mountain and Lodging segments) will be approximately $50 million to $60 million for calendar year 2009. Our ability to fund these investments will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, obtain pre-sale deposits and/or to borrow from third parties. We cannot provide assurances that our operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all. Our ability to generate cash flow and to obtain third-party financing will depend upon many factors, including: · our future operating performance; · general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting the resort industry, the ski industry and the general capital markets; · our ability to meet our pre-sell targets on our vertical real estate development projects; · competition; and · legislative and regulatory matters affecting our operations and business. We could finance future expenditures from any combination of the following sources: · cash flow from operations; · construction financing, including non-recourse or other financing; · bank borrowings; · public offerings of debt or equity; and · private placements of debt or equity. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to obtain adequate third-party financing could cause us to delay or abandon certain development projects and/or plans. We rely on government permits. Our resort operations require permits and approvals from certain Federal, state, and local authorities, including the Forest Service and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Virtually all of our ski trails and related activities at Vail Mountain, Breckenridge, Keystone and Heavenly and a majority of Beaver Creek are located on Federal land. The Forest Service has granted us permits to use these lands, but maintains the right to review and approve many operational matters, as well as the location, design and construction of improvements in these areas. Currently, our permits expire December 31, 2029 for Breckenridge, October 31, 2031 for Vail Mountain, December 31, 2032 for Keystone, December 31, 2038 for Beaver Creek and May 1, 2042 for Heavenly. The Forest Service can terminate or amend these permits if, in its opinion, such termination is required in the public interest. A termination or amendment of any of our permits could have a materially adverse affect on our business and operations. In order to undertake improvements and new development, we must apply for permits and other approvals. These efforts, if unsuccessful, could impact our expansion efforts. Furthermore, Congress may materially increase the fees we pay to the Forest Service for use of these Federal lands. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the ordinary course of business. Our operations are subject to a variety of Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations including those relating to emissions to the air, discharges to water, storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, land use, remediation of contaminated sites and protection of natural resources such as wetlands. For example, future expansions of certain of our ski facilities must comply with applicable forest plans approved under the National Forest Management Act or local zoning requirements. In addition, most projects to improve, upgrade or expand our ski areas are subject to environmental review under the NEPA and, for California projects at Heavenly, the CEQA. Both acts require that the Forest Service study any proposal for potential environmental impacts and include in its analysis various alternatives. Our ski area improvement proposals may not be approved or may be approved with modifications that substantially increase the cost or decrease the desirability of implementing the project. Our facilities are subject to risks associated with mold and other indoor building contaminants. From time to time our operations are subject to inspections by environmental regulators or other regulatory agencies. We are also subject to worker health and safety requirements. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable material environmental, health and safety requirements. However, our efforts to comply do not eliminate the risk that we may be held liable, incur fines or be subject to claims for damages, and that the amount of any liability, fines, damages or remediation costs may be material for, among other things, the presence or release of regulated materials at, on or emanating from properties we now or formerly owned or operated, newly discovered environmental impacts or contamination at or from any of our properties, or changes in environmental laws and regulations or their enforcement. Failure to maintain the integrity of guest data could result in damages of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. We collect personally identifiable information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The integrity and privacy of our guest’s information is important to us and our guests have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment governing privacy laws is increasingly demanding and privacy laws continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Maintaining compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. Furthermore, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), breach of security on systems storing our guest data, a loss of guest data or fraudulent use of guest data could adversely impact our reputation or result in fines or other damages and litigation. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business. We are, from time to time, subject to various asserted or unasserted legal proceedings and claims. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. While we believe we have adequate insurance coverage and/or accrue for loss contingencies for all known matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated, we cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For a more detailed discussion of our legal proceedings see Legal Proceedings under Item 3 and Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. Our trademarks are an important component of our business and the continued success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. The unauthorized use of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Additionally, negative public image or other adverse events which become associated with one of our brands could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We depend on a seasonal workforce. Our mountain and lodging operations are highly dependent on a large seasonal workforce. We recruit year-round to fill thousands of seasonal staffing needs each season and work to manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. We cannot guarantee that material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce will not be necessary in the future. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to recruit and hire adequate seasonal personnel as the business requires. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. If we do not retain our key personnel, our business may suffer. The success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of key management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Co- Presidents of our Mountain Division, President of VRDC, General Counsel and each of our Senior Vice Presidents. If any of these persons were to leave, it could be difficult to replace them, and our business could be harmed. We do not maintain “key-man” life insurance on any of our employees. Our future acquisitions might not be successful. Historically, we have acquired certain ski resorts, other destination resorts, hotel properties and businesses complementary to our own, as well as developable land in proximity to our resorts. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired properties and businesses and increase our profits from these operations. We continually evaluate potential acquisitions and intend to actively pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be significant. We could face various risks from additional acquisitions, including: · inability to integrate acquired businesses into our operations; · diversion of our management’s attention; · potential increased debt leverage; · litigation arising from acquisition activity; and · unanticipated problems or liabilities. In addition, we run the risk that any new acquisitions may fail to perform in accordance with expectations, and that estimates of the costs of improvements for such properties may prove inaccurate. We may be required to write-off a portion of our goodwill and/or indefinite lived intangible asset balances as a result of a more prolonged and severe economic recession. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), we are required to test goodwill for impairment annually as well as on an interim basis to the extent factors or indicators become apparent that could reduce the fair value of our goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets below book value. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill by estimating the future discounted cash flows of our reporting units and terminal values of the businesses using projected future levels of income as well as business trends, prospects and market and economic conditions. We evaluate the recoverability of indefinite lived intangible assets using the income approach based upon estimated future revenue streams (see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). If a more severe prolonged economic downturn were to occur it could cause less than expected growth and/or reduction in terminal values of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill and/or indefinite lived intangible asset impairment charge attributable to certain goodwill and/or indefinite lived intangible assets, negatively impacting our results of operations and stockholders’ equity. We are subject to accounting regulations and use certain accounting estimates and judgments that may differ significantly from actual results. Implementation of existing and future legislation, rulings, standards and interpretations from the FASB or other regulatory bodies could affect the presentation of our financial statements and related disclosures. Future regulatory requirements could significantly change our current accounting practices and disclosures. Such changes in the presentation of our financial statements and related disclosures could change an investor’s interpretation or perception of our financial position and results of operations. We use many methods, estimates and judgments in applying our accounting policies (see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · change in valuations, including our future real estate developments; · changes in the overall travel, gaming, hospitality and leisure industries; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or such guidance provided by us; · announcements by us or companies in the travel, gaming, hospitality and leisure industries of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, plans, prospects, service offerings or operating results; · additions or departures of key personnel; · future sales of our securities; · trading and volume fluctuations; · other risk factors as discussed above; and · other unforeseen events. Stock markets in the United States have and often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as acts of terrorism, a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We have not historically paid cash dividends to our common stockholders. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares since becoming publicly traded in 1997. Payment of any future dividends on our common stock will depend upon our earnings and capital requirements, the terms of our debt instruments and other factors the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Anti-takeover provisions affecting us could prevent or delay a change of control that is beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, provisions of our debt instruments and other agreements and provisions of applicable Delaware law and applicable Federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that holders of our securities may consider favorable. These provisions could: · delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company; · discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price; · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our securities; or · impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences even though principal payments on the vast majority of our long-term debt are not due until fiscal 2014 and beyond. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, real estate developments, marketing efforts and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our Indenture (as defined below) do not fully prohibit us from doing so. Our Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $304.7 million as of July 31, 2009. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could intensify. There are restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our Credit Facility and the Indenture, dated as of January 29, 2004 among us, the guarantors therein and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (“Indenture”), governing the 6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (“6.75% Notes”) may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our long-term best interests. For example, the Indenture and the Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · pay dividends, repurchase our stock and make other restricted payments; · create liens; · make investments; · engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock; · enter into sale-leaseback transactions; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and · make capital expenditures. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will meet the financial covenants contained in our Credit Facility. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants, or suffer a material adverse change which restricts our borrowing ability under our Credit Facility, we would not be able to borrow funds thereunder without a waiver, which inability could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a breach, if uncured, could cause a default under the 6.75% Notes and our other debt. Our indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable. We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments, including payments on the 6.75% Notes. Our Credit Facility is scheduled to mature in 2012 and our 6.75% Notes are due in 2014. Recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse impact on the credit markets and, as a result, credit has become significantly more expensive and difficult to obtain, if available at all. We currently have no borrowings under our Credit Facility, which is scheduled to mature in 2012; however, a sustained economic recession and its potential impact on our cash flows from operating activities, combined with our plan to self-fund our current real estate under development could require us to borrow significant funds under the revolver component of our Credit Facility. In addition to our Credit Facility, we have outstanding $390.0 million of 6.75% Notes due in 2014. The credit markets are volatile and may pose challenges and have an adverse effect on our ability to re-finance or obtain new financing on terms that are acceptable to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain new financing or financing on acceptable terms. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 