ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to attract, develop and retain our operational personnel. Our success is dependent on attracting, developing, and retaining operational personnel, especially those individuals who are responsible for operating the inpatient units, outpatient programs and contract therapy locations in our program management business and our hospitals. In particular, we rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified recruiters, area managers, program managers, regional managers and hospital administrators. The available pool of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited and the competition for labor in the healthcare industry is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and develop qualified people to fill these essential positions and we may not be able to retain them once they are employed. Shortages of qualified therapists and other healthcare personnel could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as therapists and other allied healthcare professionals. We rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain therapists and other healthcare personnel who possess the skills, experience and, as required, the licensure necessary to meet the specified requirements of our business. In some markets, the availability of therapists and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. A shortage of such skilled labor may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits in order to recruit and retain qualified personnel, or it may require us to hire more costly temporary personnel. We must continually evaluate, train and upgrade our employees to keep pace with clients' and patients’ needs. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel, the quality of our services may decline and we may lose customers. - 15 - - Unionization activities could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we are not aware of any current activities to organize our employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. If our employees were to unionize, we could experience an increase in labor and other costs. Furthermore, we could experience a disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs if our employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage. Fluctuations in census levels and patient visits may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our program management business is directly affected by the census levels, or the number of patients per unit, in the inpatient programs that we manage and the number of visits in the outpatient programs that we manage. The profitability of our hospitals business is also directly affected by the census levels at each of our hospitals. Reduction in census levels or patient visits within facilities, units or programs that we own or manage may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements of our clients for the rehabilitation services managed by us, our program management services’ clients could attempt to renegotiate our contracts with them, which may reduce our revenues and profitability. Most of the patients cared for in our facilities are beneficiaries of government sponsored programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In an effort to control the expanding costs of the Medicare program, CMS and Congress periodically change benefits and reimbursement levels. Changes in the rates of or conditions for government reimbursement, including policies related to Medicare and Medicaid, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to our clients for rehabilitation services performed in the programs managed by us and, in turn, our clients may attempt to renegotiate the terms of our contracts. Medicaid reimbursement is a significant revenue source for skilled nursing facilities and other long-term care facilities where contract therapy services are provided. Reductions in Medicaid reimbursement could negatively impact skilled nursing facilities and long-term care facilities which, in turn, could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our contract therapy business. If we do not manage admissions in the IRFs and LTACHs that we manage or own in compliance with the 60% Rule and the 25% Rule, respectively, reimbursement for services rendered by us in those settings will be based on less favorable rates. IRFs are subject to the 60% Rule which now requires that 60% or more of the patients admitted to the facilities have one or more of thirteen specific conditions in order to qualify for the IRF PPS. If that compliance threshold is not maintained, the IRF will be reimbursed at the lower PPS applicable to acute care hospitals. That may lead to reduced revenue in our owned IRFs and may also lead our IRF clients to attempt to renegotiate the terms of our contracts or terminate our contracts, in either case adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. Likewise, some LTACHs are subject to the 25% Rule which requires that 25% or fewer of the patients admitted to the facility are referred from the same source. - 16 - - If there are changes in the rate or methods of government reimbursement for services provided by our hospitals, the revenue and profitability of those hospitals may be adversely affected. In our hospitals business, we are directly reimbursed for a significant number of the patients we treat in those facilities through government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare. Changes in the rates of or conditions for government reimbursement could reduce the amounts reimbursed to our facilities and in turn could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our hospital business. We conduct business in a heavily regulated healthcare industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and state regulation relating to, among other things: · facility and professional licensure; · conduct of operations; · certain clinical procedures; · addition of facilities and services, including certificates of need; · coding and billing for services; and · payment for services. Both federal and state government agencies have increased coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts related to the healthcare industry. Regulations related to the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of those laws. Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse laws prohibit certain business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs, including the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce or arrange for referral of patients or recommendation for the provision of items or services covered by Medicare or Medicaid or any other federal or state healthcare program. Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims, including claims to obtain reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid. Although we have implemented a compliance program to help assure compliance with these regulations as they become effective, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations in the future could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or the manner in which we conduct our business. If we fail to comply with government regulations, we or our clients could lose reimbursements or suffer civil or criminal penalties, which could result in cancellation of our contracts and a decrease in revenues. Beyond these healthcare industry-specific regulatory risks, we are also subject to all of the same federal, state, and local rules and regulations that apply to other publicly traded companies and large employers. We are subject to a myriad of federal, state, and local laws regulating, for example, the issuance of securities, employee rights and benefits, workers compensation and safety, and many other activities attendant with our business. Failure to comply with such regulations, even if unintentional, could materially impact our financial results. - 17 - - If our LTACHs fail to maintain their certification as long-term acute care hospitals, then our profitability may decline. As of December 31, 2008, five of our eleven hospitals were certified by Medicare as LTACHs. If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long-term acute care hospitals, such as average minimum length of patient stay, they will receive payments under the prospective payment system applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than payment under the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would result in our LTACHs receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services and our profit margins would likely decrease. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented market and our success depends on our ability to demonstrate that we offer a more efficient solution to our customers’ rehabilitation program objectives. Competition for our program management business is highly fragmented and intense. Hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other long-term care facilities that do not choose to outsource the management of their physical rehabilitation services are the primary competitors of our program management business. The fundamental challenge in our program management business is demonstrating to potential clients, primarily hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other long-term care facilities, that we can provide rehabilitation services more efficiently than they can themselves. The inpatient units and outpatient programs that we manage are in highly competitive markets and compete for patients with other hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and long-term care facilities, as well as other larger companies such as HealthSouth Corporation, Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Select Medical Corporation. Some of these competitors may be better capitalized, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, and their managers may have stronger relationships with physicians in the communities that they serve. All of these factors could give our competitors an advantage over us. We may face difficulties integrating acquisitions into our operations, and our acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures, or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We expect to continue pursuing acquisitions and joint ownership arrangements, each of which involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; · incomplete due diligence or misunderstanding as to the target company’s future prospects; · diversion of management attention and capital resources from existing operations; · short term (or longer lasting) dilution in the value of our shares; · over-paying for an acquired company due to incorrect analysis or because of competition from other companies for the same target; · inability to achieve forecasted revenues, cost savings or other synergies; · potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and · assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. These acquisitions and joint ownership arrangements may also result in significant cash expenditures, incurrence of debt, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition may restrict our future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations. We have historically faced competition in acquiring companies complimentary to our lines of business. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the companies that would be suitable candidates for acquisition by us. This could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or make the cost of acquisitions higher and less accretive to us. - 18 - - Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability, fraud, labor violations or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve complex claims that can be extraordinarily broad given the scope of our operations. They may also entail significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance, general liability insurance, and employment practices liability coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Our success depends on retention of our key officers. Our future success depends in significant part on the continued service of our key officers. Competition for these individuals is intense and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key officers or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified executives in the future. The loss of any of our key officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects. We may have future capital needs and any future issuances of equity securities may result in dilution of the value of our common stock. We anticipate that the amounts generated internally, together with amounts available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to implement our business plan for the foreseeable future, subject to additional needs that may arise if unexpected events occur or if a substantial acquisition or other growth opportunity becomes available. We may obtain additional capital through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities. If we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. We cannot be assured that additional capital will be available, or available on terms favorable to us. If capital is not available, we may not be able to fund internal or external business expansion or respond to competitive pressures. The recent uncertainty in the financial markets could limit the availability and terms of debt financing sources to fund the capital and liquidity requirements of our business. One of the primary risks relating to current market conditions is the possibility that the lenders to our credit agreement will be unable to provide liquidity when needed. While we are not aware of any specific risks involving our counterparties, there can be no assurance that all of the lenders to our credit agreement will fulfill their commitments if we need to make additional draws against our revolving credit facility. In addition, a rapid increase in interest rates and/or a decline in our operating performance could impair our ability to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit facility. A default due to the violation of these covenants could require us to immediately repay all amounts then outstanding under the credit facility. If we anticipate a potential covenant violation, we would seek relief from our lenders; however, such relief might not be granted or might be granted on terms less favorable than those in our existing credit agreement. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all debt covenants. - 19 - - We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to facility infrastructure failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. We also retain confidential patient information in our database. It is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by clients as secure. A material security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability to us. Despite the implementation of security measures, we may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning or unavailability of our information systems. From time to time, we may also modify our information systems to take advantage of new technologies. Such modifications may cause temporary disruptions to the operations of our business which could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations in the periods affected. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane and tornado and other events such as power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our clients and patients. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to restore critical information systems; however, we do not have full redundancy for all of our information systems in the event of a natural disaster. We have arranged for access to space and servers with a local information technology infrastructure provider in the event our corporate data center is damaged or without utilities for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that our disaster recovery plan will prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations if a natural disaster were to occur. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in federal and state income tax laws and regulations or adverse decisions by regulatory taxing authorities could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” on January 1, 2007. This Interpretation requires financial statement recognition of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position. Management believes its estimates and judgments related to its uncertain tax positions are reasonable. Nevertheless, the ultimate resolution of our tax matters could differ from management’s estimates and such differences could be material. See Note 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our uncertain tax positions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 20 - - ITEM 