Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules - 2 - - PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The terms “RehabCare,” “our company,” “we” and “our” as used herein refer to RehabCare Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Overview of Our Company RehabCare Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading provider of rehabilitation program management services in more than 1,200 hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, outpatient facilities and other long-term care facilities located in 41 states. We also own and operate 28 long-term acute care hospitals (“LTACHs”) and 6 rehabilitation hospitals. These hospitals provide total medical care to patients with medically complex diagnoses and to patients in need of rehabilitation. Established in 1982, we have more than 25 years of experience helping healthcare providers grow and become more efficient while effectively and compassionately delivering rehabilitation services to patients. In partnership with healthcare providers, we provide post-acute program management, medical direction, physical therapy rehabilitation, quality assurance, compliance review, specialty programs and census development services. We believe our clients place a high value on our extensive experience in assisting them to implement clinical best practices, to address competition for patient services, and to navigate the complexities inherent in managed care contracting and government reimbursement systems. Over the years, we have diversified our program management services to include management services for inpatient rehabilitation facilities within hospitals, skilled nursing units, outpatient rehabilitation programs, home health, and skilled nursing, long-term care and assisted living facilities. Effective November 24, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Triumph HealthCare Holdings, Inc. (“Triumph”) for a purchase price of approximately $538.5 million. On the acquisition date, Triumph operated 20 LTACHs in seven states. In 2009, we also acquired LTACHs in Dallas, Texas and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and opened a majority-owned LTACH in Peoria, Illinois. These activities expanded the number of LTACHs we own and operate to 28, making us the third largest LTACH provider in the United States. Effective June 1, 2009, we completed the sale of our Phase 2 Consulting, Inc. (“Phase 2”) business. Phase 2 provides management and economic consulting services to the healthcare industry and had been a subsidiary of the Company since it was acquired in 2004. The sale of Phase 2 will allow the Company to focus on its core businesses: program management services and hospitals. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had consolidated operating revenues of $869.4 million, operating earnings of $44.5 million, net earnings attributable to RehabCare of $23.0 million and diluted earnings per share attributable to RehabCare of $1.22. Industry Overview As a provider of program management services and an operator of hospitals, our revenues and growth are affected by trends and developments in healthcare spending. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), total healthcare expenditures in the United States grew by 4.4% to approximately $2.3 trillion in 2008 or 16.2% of the United States gross domestic product. - 3 - - CMS further projects that total healthcare spending in the United States will continue to grow an average of 6.1% annually from 2009 through 2019. According to these estimates, healthcare expenditures will account for approximately $4.5 trillion, or 19.3%, of the United States gross domestic product by 2019. Demographic considerations affect long-term growth projections for healthcare spending. While we deliver therapy to adults of all ages, most of our services are delivered to persons 65 and older. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s latest projections, there are approximately 40 million U.S. residents aged 65 or older, comprising approximately 13.0% of the total United States population. The number of U.S. residents aged 65 or older is expected to climb to approximately 55 million by 2020 and to approximately 72 million by 2030. By 2040, the number of U.S. residents 65 and older is estimated to reach approximately 81 million, or 20.0%, of the total population. Due to the increasing life expectancy of U.S. residents, the number of people aged 85 years or older is also expected to increase from 5.8 million in 2010 to 14.2 million in 2040. We believe healthcare expenditures and longer life expectancy of the general population will place increased pressure on healthcare providers to find innovative, efficient means of delivering healthcare services. In particular, many of the health conditions associated with aging — such as stroke and heart attack, neurological disorders and diseases and injuries to the muscles, bones and joints — will increase the demand for rehabilitative therapy and long-term acute care. These trends, combined with the need for acute care hospitals to move their patients into the appropriate level of care on a timely basis, will encourage healthcare providers to efficiently direct patients to long-term acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, outpatient therapy, home health, skilled nursing therapy and other post-acute programs. The growth of managed care and its focus on cost control has encouraged healthcare providers to deliver quality care at the lowest cost possible. Medicare and Medicaid incentives also have driven declines in average inpatient days per admission. In many cases, patients are treated initially in a higher cost, acute-care hospital setting. After their condition has stabilized, they are either moved to a lower cost setting, such as a skilled nursing facility or subacute nursing facility, or are moved to another post-acute institution, such as an inpatient rehabilitation facility or a long-term acute care hospital. Alternatively, patients are discharged to their home and treated on a home health or outpatient basis. Thus, while hospital inpatient admissions have continued to grow, the number of average inpatient days per admission has declined. There are approximately 5,000 general acute-care hospitals in the United States, including an estimated 1,000 hospitals with inpatient rehabilitation facilities (“IRFs”). We currently provide acute rehabilitation program management services to 106 hospitals that operate inpatient rehabilitation facilities. There are approximately 15,700 Medicare-certified skilled nursing facilities in the United States, including an estimated 5,000 facilities that are the most likely prospects for our contract therapy services. We currently provide services to 1,118 of those facilities. In addition to skilled nursing facilities, we have expanded our service offerings to deliver therapy management services in additional settings such as long-term care, home health, assisted living facilities and continuing care retirement communities. Overview of Our Business Units We currently operate in two business segments: program management services, which consists of two business units — hospital rehabilitation services and skilled nursing rehabilitation services — and hospitals. The following table describes the services we offer within each segment. - 4 - - Business Segments Description of Service Benefits to Client Program Management Services: Hospital Rehabilitation Services: Inpatient Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities: Skilled Nursing Units (Subacute Rehabilitation): High acuity rehabilitation for conditions such as stroke, orthopedic conditions and head injuries. Lower acuity rehabilitation for conditions such as stroke, cancer, heart failure, burns and wounds. Affords the client opportunities to retain and expand market share in the post-acute market by offering specialized clinical rehabilitation services to patients who might otherwise be discharged to a setting outside the client’s facility. Outpatient Outpatient therapy programs for hospital-based and satellite programs (primarily sports and work-related injuries). Helps bring patients into the client’s facility by providing specialized clinical programs and helps the client compete with freestanding clinics. Skilled Nursing Rehabilitation Services: Contract Therapy Rehabilitation services in freestanding skilled nursing, long-term care and assisted living facilities for neurological, orthopedic and other medical conditions. Affords the client the ability to fulfill the continuing need for therapists on a full-time or part-time basis. Offers the client a better opportunity to improve the quality of their programs. Other Resident-centered consulting services and therapist and nurse staffing services for healthcare providers. Provides management advisory services and solutions to healthcare providers. Hospitals: Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals (LTACHs) Provide high-level therapeutic and clinical care to patients with medically complex diagnoses requiring an average length of stay of 25 days or more. Rehabilitation Hospitals Provide intense interdisciplinary rehabilitation services to patients on an inpatient and outpatient basis. - 5 - - Financial information about each of our business segments is contained in Note 19, “Industry Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes, by geographic region in the United States, our program management and hospital locations as of December 31, 2009. Program Management Services Inpatient Rehabilitation/ Outpatient Contract Skilled Nursing Therapy Therapy Geographic Region Units Programs Programs Hospitals Mountain Region 1/1 1 66 1 North Central Region 35/1 10 327 7 Northeast Region 16/1 5 121 2 South Central Region 32/0 6 403 22 Southeast Region 14/2 7 148 2 Western Region 8/4 1 53 0 Total 106/9 30 1,118 34 Program Management Services Many healthcare providers partner with companies, like RehabCare, that manage either a single service line or a broad range of service lines. Partnering allows healthcare providers to take advantage of the specialized expertise of contract management companies, enabling them to concentrate on the businesses they know best, such as facility and acute-care management. Continued managed care and Medicare reimbursement controls for acute care services have driven healthcare providers to look for additional sources of revenue. As constraints on overhead and operating costs have increased and staffing has been reduced, partnering with providers of ancillary and post-acute services has become more important in order to increase patient volumes and provide services at a lower cost while maintaining high quality standards. By partnering with contract management companies like RehabCare, healthcare facilities may be able to: · Improve Clinical Quality. Program managers focused on rehabilitation are able to develop and employ best practices, which benefit client facilities and their patients. · Increase Volumes. Through the addition of specialty services such as IRFs within acute-care hospitals, patients who were being discharged to other venues for treatment can now remain in the hospital setting. This allows hospitals to capture revenues that would otherwise be realized by another provider. Upon discharge, patients can return for outpatient care, creating added revenues for the provider. New services also help hospitals attract new patients. The addition of a managed rehabilitation program helps skilled nursing facilities attract residents by broadening their scope of services. · Optimize Utilization of Space. Inpatient services help hospitals optimize physical plant space to treat patients who have specific diagnoses within the particular hospital’s targeted service lines. · Increase Cost Control. Because of their extensive experience in the service line, contract management companies can offer pricing structures that effectively control a healthcare provider’s financial risk related to the service provided. For hospitals and other providers that utilize program managers, the result is often lower average cost than that of self-managed programs. As a result, the facility is able to increase its revenues without having to increase administrative staff or incur other fixed costs. - 6 - - · Establish Agreements with Managed Care Organizations. Program managers often have the ability to improve clinical care by capturing and analyzing patient information from a large number of inpatient rehabilitation and skilled nursing units, which an individual hospital could not do on its own without a substantial investment in specialized systems. Becoming part of a managed care network helps the hospital attract physicians, and in turn, attract more patients to the hospital. · Provide Access to Capital. Contract management companies, particularly those which have access to public markets, can in certain circumstances make capital available to their clients for adding programs and services like physical rehabilitative services or expanding existing programs when community needs dictate. · Obtain Reimbursement Advice. Contract management companies, like RehabCare, employ reimbursement specialists who are available to assist client facilities in interpreting complicated regulations within a given specialty — a highly valued service in the changing healthcare environment. · Obtain Clinical Resources and Expertise. Rehabilitation service providers have the ability to develop and implement clinical training and development programs that can provide best practices for clients. · Ensure Appropriate Levels of Staffing for Rehabilitation Professionals. Therapy staffing in both hospitals and skilled nursing settings presents unique challenges that can be better managed by a provider with a national recruiting presence. Program managers have the ability to more sharply focus on staffing levels in order to address the fluctuating clinical needs of the host facility. Our program management services segment consists of two business units — hospital rehabilitation services (which includes inpatient acute and subacute rehabilitation programs and outpatient therapy programs) and skilled nursing rehabilitation services. Inpatient We have developed an effective business model in the prospective payment environment, and we are instrumental in helping our clients achieve favorable outcomes in their inpatient rehabilitation settings. Inpatient Rehabilitation. Since 1982, our inpatient division has been a leader in operating inpatient rehabilitation facilities (“IRFs”) in acute-care hospitals on a contract basis. As of December 31, 2009, we managed inpatient rehabilitation facilities in 106 hospitals for patients with various diagnoses including stroke, orthopedic conditions, arthritis, spinal cord and traumatic brain injuries. We establish IRFs in acute-care hospitals that have vacant space and unmet rehabilitation needs in their markets. We also work with hospitals that currently operate IRFs to determine the projected level of cost savings we can deliver to them by implementing our scheduling, clinical protocol and outcome systems, as well as through productivity training for existing staff. In the case of hospitals that do not operate inpatient rehabilitation facilities, we review their historical and existing hospital population, as well as the demographics of the geographic region, to determine the optimal size of the proposed IRF and the potential of the new facility under our management to attract patients and generate revenues sufficient to cover anticipated expenses. - 7 - - In the inpatient division, our relationships with hospitals are in the form of contracts for management services which are typically three to five years in duration. We are generally paid by our clients on the basis of a negotiated fee per month or fee per discharge. An IRF within an acute-care hospital affords the hospital the ability to offer rehabilitation services to patients who might otherwise be discharged to a setting outside the hospital. An IRF within an acute-care hospital typically consists of 20 beds and is staffed with a program director, a physician or medical director, and clinical staff, which may include a psychologist, physical and occupational therapists, a speech/language pathologist, a social worker, a case manager and other appropriate support personnel. Subacute Rehabilitation. In 1994, the inpatient division added a skilled nursing service line in response to client requests for management services and our strategic decision to broaden our inpatient services. As of December 31, 2009, we managed 9 inpatient skilled nursing units. The hospital-based skilled nursing unit enables patients to remain in a hospital setting where emergency needs can be met quickly as opposed to being sent to a freestanding skilled nursing facility. These types of units are located within the acute-care hospital and are separately licensed. We are paid by our skilled nursing clients either based on a flat monthly fee or a negotiated fee per patient day pursuant to contracts that are typically for terms of three to five years. The hospital benefits by retaining patients who otherwise would be discharged to another setting, capturing additional revenue and utilizing idle space. A skilled nursing unit treats patients who require less intensive levels of rehabilitative care. Patients’ diagnoses typically require long-term care and cover approximately 60 clinical conditions, including stroke, post-surgical conditions, pulmonary disease, cancer, congestive heart failure, burns and wounds. Outpatient In 1993, we began managing outpatient therapy programs that provide therapy services to patients with work-related and sports-related illnesses and injuries. As of December 31, 2009, we managed 30 hospital-based and satellite outpatient therapy programs. An outpatient therapy program complements the hospital’s occupational medicine initiatives and allows therapy to be continued for patients discharged from inpatient rehabilitation facilities and medical/surgical beds. An outpatient therapy program also attracts patients into the hospital and is operated either on the client hospital’s campus or in satellite locations controlled by the hospital. We believe our management of outpatient therapy programs delivers increased productivity through our scheduling, clinical protocol and outcome systems, as well as through productivity training for existing staff. We also provide our clients with expertise in compliance and quality assurance. Typically, the program is staffed with a facility director, four to six therapists, and two to four administrative and clerical staff. We are typically paid by our clients on the basis of a negotiated fee per unit of service. Skilled Nursing Rehabilitation Services In 1997, we added therapy management for freestanding skilled nursing facilities to our service offerings. This program affords the client the opportunity to fulfill its continuing need for therapists on a full-time or part-time basis without the need to hire and retain full-time staff. As of December 31, 2009, we managed 1,118 contract therapy programs. - 8 - - Our typical contract therapy client has a 120 bed skilled nursing facility. We manage therapy services, including physical and occupational therapy and speech/language pathology for the skilled nursing facility and in other settings that provide services to the senior population. Our broad base of staffing service offerings — full-time and part-time — can be adjusted at each location according to the facility’s and its patients’ needs. We also provide our clients improved scheduling, clinical protocols, patient outcomes, compliance with Medicare requirements and therapist productivity through the use of handheld point of service devices by our therapists. We are generally paid by our clients on the basis of a negotiated patient per diem rate or a negotiated fee schedule based on the type of service rendered. Typically, our contract therapy programs are led by a full-time program director who is also a therapist, and two to four full-time professionals trained in physical, occupational or speech/language therapy. Hospitals We entered the rehabilitation and long-term acute care hospital market in 2005 when we acquired substantially all of the operating assets of MeadowBrook Healthcare, Inc. (“MeadowBrook”), an operator of two rehabilitation hospitals and two LTACHs. These facilities treat patients who require intensive inpatient rehabilitative care and patients with medically complex diagnoses. Patient care is provided by nursing and therapy staff as directed by a physician order. Effective November 24, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Triumph HealthCare Holdings, Inc., which operated 20 LTACHs at the time of acquisition, more than doubling the size of our hospital segment. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 28 LTACHs and 6 rehabilitation hospitals. We are the sole owner of 20 of these hospitals. We retain a 51% to 87% ownership in the remaining 14 jointly owned hospitals. Our hospitals are located in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Florida, Georgia, Missouri, Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Michigan, North Dakota and Colorado. Except for two Company-owned facilities, all of these facilities are located in property leased by us under long-term leases. Our facilities range in size from 20 to 115 licensed beds. We also own a 40% equity interest in a freestanding rehabilitation hospital in Kokomo, Indiana. LTACHs serve highly complex, but relatively stable, patients. Typical diagnoses include respiratory failure, neuromuscular disorders, traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries, stroke, cardiac disorders, non-healing wounds, renal disorders and cancer. Most LTACH patients are transferred from inpatient acute medical/surgical beds. In order to remain certified as an LTACH, average length of stay for Medicare patients must be at least 25 days. The clinical services we provide in LTACHs include: nursing care, rehabilitation therapies, pulmonology, respiratory care, cardiac and hemodynamic monitoring, ventilator weaning, dialysis services, IV antibiotic therapy, total parenteral nutrition, wound care, vacuum assisted closure, pain management and diabetes management. The majority of our LTACH patients are covered by Medicare. Our rehabilitation hospitals provide services to patients who require intensive inpatient rehabilitative care. Inpatient rehabilitation patients typically experience significant physical disabilities due to various conditions, such as head injury, spinal cord injury, stroke, certain orthopedic problems, and neuromuscular disease. Our rehabilitation hospitals provide the medical, nursing, therapy, and ancillary services required to comply with local, state, and federal regulations, as well as accreditation standards of the Joint Commission. The outpatient services offered by our hospital division assist us in managing patients through their post-acute continuum of care. The majority of our inpatient rehabilitation facility patients are covered by Medicare. - 9 - - In the hospital segment, we are developing joint venture relationships with acute care hospitals and physician practices whereby the joint venture owns and/or operates the LTACH or rehabilitation facility, and we provide management services to the facility, which include billing, collection, and other facility management services. This joint venture management business model provides the potential for additional profitability and significantly longer partnerships, but requires additional capital compared to our traditional contract management business. Strategy Our operations are guided by a defined strategy aimed at advancing the profitability and growth of our company and the delivery of high quality healthcare services to patients. The focal point of that strategy is the development of clinically integrated post acute continuums of care in geographic regions throughout the United States where we provide services in a full spectrum of post acute patient settings. We plan to execute this strategy over the long-term through acquisitions, joint ownership arrangements with market leading healthcare providers and by aggressively pursuing additional program management opportunities. Competition Competition in our program management business is highly fragmented and intense. We compete with large national companies and smaller regional companies that offer one or more of the same services. The fundamental challenge in this line of business is convincing our potential clients, primarily hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, that we can provide quality rehabilitation services more efficiently than they can themselves. Among our principal competitive advantages are our scale, reputation for quality, cost effectiveness, an outcomes management system, innovation, price and technology systems. Our hospitals compete primarily with LTACHs, IRFs and skilled nursing units within acute care hospitals located in our respective markets. In addition, we face competition from other large publicly held companies such as HealthSouth Corporation, Select Medical Corporation and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. We rely on our ability to attract, develop and retain therapists and program management personnel. We compete for these professionals with other healthcare companies, including current and potential clients, which seek to fill positions with either regular or temporary employees. Government Regulation Overview. The healthcare industry is required to comply with many federal, state and local laws and is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies, including those that administer the Medicare and Medicaid programs, those responsible for the licensure of healthcare providers and facilities, and those responsible for administering and approving health facility construction, new services and equipment purchasing. The healthcare industry is also affected by federal, state and local policies developed to regulate the manner in which healthcare is provided, administered and paid for nationally and locally. While Congress attempted to pass major legislation on healthcare reform in 2009, it is not known when or if such legislation will occur. Regulations in the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation. As a result, the healthcare industry is exposed to legislative and regulatory changes; reductions and limitations in healthcare spending by government agencies; and changes in employer healthcare policies. Moreover, our business is impacted not only by those regulations that are directly applicable to our hospitals, but also by those regulations that are applicable to our clients’ facilities. - 10 - - If we fail to comply with the regulations applicable to our business, we could suffer civil damages or penalties, criminal penalties, and/or be excluded from contracting with providers participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Likewise, if our hospital, skilled nursing facility, or other clients fail to comply with the regulations applicable to their businesses, they also could suffer civil damages or penalties, criminal penalties and/or be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. In either event, such consequences could either directly or indirectly have an adverse impact on our business. Facility Licensure, Medicare Certification, and Certificate of Need. Our clients and our hospitals are required to comply with state facility licensure, federal Medicare certification, and certificate of need laws in certain states that are not generally applicable to our program management business. Generally, facility licensure and Medicare certification follow specific standards and requirements. Compliance is monitored by various mechanisms, including periodic written reports and on-site inspections by representatives of relevant government agencies. Loss of licensure or Medicare certification by a healthcare facility with which we have a contract would likely result in termination of our contract with that facility. Loss of licensure or Medicare certification in any of our hospitals would result in a material adverse impact on the revenues and profitability of the affected unit until such time as the re-certification process is completed. A few states require that healthcare facilities obtain state permission prior to entering into contracts for the management of their services. Some states also require that healthcare facilities obtain state permission in the form of a certificate of need prior to constructing or modifying their space, purchasing high-cost medical equipment, or adding new healthcare services. If a certificate of need is required, the process may take up to 12 months or more, depending on the state. The certificate of need application may be denied if contested by a competitor or if the new facility or service is deemed unnecessary by the state reviewing agency. A certificate of need is usually issued for a specified maximum expenditure and requires implementation of the proposed improvement or new service within a specified period of time. If we or our clients are unable to obtain a certificate of need, we may not be able to implement a contract to provide therapy services or open a new hospital. Professional Licensure and Corporate Practice. Many of the healthcare professionals employed or independently engaged by us are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state laws. We take reasonable steps to ensure that such healthcare professionals possess all necessary licenses and certifications, and we believe that our employees and independent contractors comply with all applicable laws. In some states, for profit corporations are restricted from practicing rehabilitation therapy through the direct employment of therapists. To comply with the restrictions in such states, we contract to obtain therapist services from entities permitted to employ therapists. Reimbursement. Federal and state regulations establish payment methodologies for healthcare services covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Medicare pays acute-care hospitals for most inpatient hospital services under a payment system known as the prospective payment system (“PPS”). Under this system, acute-care hospitals are paid a fixed amount per discharge based on the diagnosis-related group (“DRG”) to which each Medicare patient is assigned, regardless of the amount of services provided to the patient or the length of the patient’s hospital stay. The amount of reimbursement assigned to each DRG is established prospectively by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services. Under Medicare’s acute-care prospective payment system, a hospital may keep the difference between its DRG payment and its operating costs incurred in furnishing inpatient services, but the hospital is generally at risk for any operating costs that exceed the applicable DRG payment rate. For certain Medicare beneficiaries who have unusually costly hospital stays, CMS will provide additional payments above those specified for the diagnosis-related group. - 11 - - The prospective payment system for inpatient rehabilitation facilities (“IRFs”) is similar to the DRG payment system used for acute-care hospital services but uses a case-mix group (“CMG”) rather than a diagnosis-related group. Each patient is assigned to a CMG based on clinical characteristics and expected resource needs as a result of information reported on a patient assessment instrument which is completed upon patient admission and discharge. Under the prospective payment system, an IRF may keep the difference between its CMG payment and its operating costs incurred in furnishing patient services, but it is at risk for operating costs that exceed the applicable CMG payment. We believe that the PPS for IRFs favors low-cost, efficient providers, and that our efficiencies gained through economies of scale and our focus on cost management in the rehabilitation field are attractive to operators in the hospital sector. To qualify for the PPS for IRFs, operators must satisfy what was previously known as the 75% Rule and is now known as the 60% Rule. The 2007 Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act (“the 2007 SCHIP Extension Act”), enacted in December 2007, permanently set the compliance threshold at 60%. The rule requires that 60% of patients fall within thirteen specific diagnostic categories. We continue to monitor the regulatory environment for any new rules that could affect this statute. The Medicare program is administered by contractors and fiscal intermediaries. Under the authority granted by CMS, certain fiscal intermediaries have issued local coverage determinations that are intended to clarify the clinical criteria under which Medicare reimbursement is available. Certain local coverage determinations attempt to require evidence of a greater level of medical necessity for inpatient rehabilitation facility patients. Those local coverage determinations have been used by fiscal intermediaries to deny admission or reimbursement for some patients in our hospital rehabilitation services and hospital divisions. Where appropriate, we and our clients appeal such denials and many times are successful in overturning the original decision of the fiscal intermediary. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 directed CMS to create a program using independent recovery audit contractors (“RACs”) to collect improper Medicare overpayments. The RAC program, which began with a demonstration pilot in three states and is scheduled to be expanded to all 50 states by 2010, has been very controversial because the RACs are paid a percentage of claims that are ultimately disallowed. On October 6, 2008, CMS awarded contracts to four permanent RACs beginning in March 2009. We will continue to challenge and appeal any claims that we believe have been inappropriately denied. Medicare reimbursement for outpatient rehabilitation services is based on the lesser of the provider’s actual charge for such services or the applicable Medicare physician fee schedule amount established by CMS. This reimbursement system applies regardless of whether the therapy services are furnished in a hospital outpatient department, a skilled nursing facility, an assisted living facility, a physician’s office, or the office of a therapist in private practice. The physician fee schedule is subject to change from year to year. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 provided a 0.5% increase in the fee schedule for 2008 and an additional 1.1% increase beginning January 1, 2009. In December 2009, Congress passed a short extension of the current fee schedule which expired on March 1, 2010. On March 2, 2010, the President signed HR 4961, a short term extension for a number of expiring provisions. Contained in this bill is an extension of the current physician fee schedule through March 31, 2010. - 12 - - On May 1, 2007, CMS released a rule extending the so-called 25% Rule to all LTACHs, including those LTACHs that have previously operated under a statutory grandfathering exemption. The 25% Rule limits LTACH prospective payment system paid admissions from a single referral source to 25%. Admissions beyond the 25% threshold would be paid using lower inpatient PPS rates. Our LTACH in New Orleans, Louisiana had been grandfathered and statutorily exempt from that rule. Such exemption provided greater operational flexibility and fewer restrictions on the types of patients that could be admitted to that facility. Under the May 1, 2007 rule, implementation of the 25% threshold was to occur over a three year transition period. As more fully discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, we recognized a $4.9 million impairment loss in the second quarter of 2007 to reduce the carrying value of the New Orleans LTACH’s statutory exemption intangible asset to its revised estimate of fair value based on the impact of the change in regulations. LTACHs are currently reimbursed under a prospective payment system (“LTACH-PPS”) pursuant to which Medicare classifies patients into distinct diagnostic related groups based upon specific clinical characteristics and expected resource needs. The 2007 SCHIP Extension Act provided regulatory relief for a three year period to LTACHs to ensure continued access to current long-term acute care hospital services. Specifically, the legislation prevented CMS from implementing a new payment provision for short stay outlier cases and provided that the 25% Rule will not be applied to freestanding LTACHs and grandfathered LTACHs such as the one we operate in New Orleans until after cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2010. The 2007 SCHIP Extension Act also established a three-year moratorium, which is scheduled to end on December 31, 2010, on the establishment or classification of any new LTACH facilities, any satellite facilities and increases in bed capacity at existing LTACHs. The most recent extension of SCHIP, which was enacted in February 2009, did not alter any Medicare reimbursement policies that would significantly impact our business. Skilled nursing facilities are also subject to a prospective payment system based on resource utilization group classifications. On July 31, 2009, CMS issued its final payment rule for skilled nursing facilities for federal fiscal year 2010 which includes provisions that would take effect in federal fiscal year 2011. The final rule included a net payment rate reduction of 1.1% for skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”) beginning on October 1, 2009 and two provisions that begin on October 1, 2010: a move from the current payment system of resource utilization groups (“RUGs III”) to RUGs IV and changes to the reimbursement rules for concurrent therapy. Concurrent therapy occurs when two or more patients are treated at the same time with different regimens. In the past, CMS considered the total time of the concurrent session to be assigned to each patient. The final rule now requires the total time to be allocated amongst each patient. As of January 1, 2006, certain limits or caps on the amount of reimbursement for therapy services provided to Medicare Part B patients came into effect. The annual therapy caps are currently $1,860 for occupational therapy and a combined cap of $1,860 for physical and speech therapy. Prior to January 1, 2010, most of our Medicare Part B patients qualified for an automatic exception to these caps due to their clinical complexities. However, the therapy cap exception process expired on January 1, 2010. On March 2, 2010, the President signed HR 4961, a short term extension for a number of expiring provisions. Contained in this bill is a retro-active extension of the Medicare Part B therapy cap exception process from January 1, 2010 through March 31, 2010. Congress is considering additional legislation to further extend the exception process. Health Information Practices. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, commonly known as HIPAA, was enacted to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system through the establishment of standards and requirements for the electronic transmission of certain health information. HIPAA regulates, among other things, the use of (i) protected health information; (ii) electronic transactions and code sets in the healthcare field; (iii) unique identifiers for patients, healthcare providers, health insurance plans, and employers; and (iv) electronic signatures. We and our program management clients are generally subject to the requirements of HIPAA. HIPAA is a very complex law that has required the careful implementation of a considerable number of policies, systems, and safeguards to better ensure our compliance with its requirements. - 13 - - Fraud and Abuse. Various federal and state laws prohibit the knowing and willful submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement, including claims to obtain payment under Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. The federal anti-kickback statute also prohibits individuals and entities from knowingly and willfully paying, offering, receiving or soliciting money or anything else of value in order to induce the referral of patients, or to induce a person to purchase, lease, order, arrange for or recommend services or goods covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or other government healthcare programs. The federal anti-kickback statute is susceptible to broad interpretation and potentially covers many otherwise legitimate business arrangements. Violations of the statute are punishable by criminal and civil penalties, including fines of up to $25,000 per violation, civil monetary penalties of up to $50,000 per violation, assessments of up to three times the amount of the prohibited remuneration, imprisonment, or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other government healthcare programs. The Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) has published guidelines outlining certain safe harbor arrangements that do not violate the prohibitions of the statute. A number of states also have statutes that prohibit the same general types of conduct as that prohibited by the federal anti-kickback statute. Some states’ antifraud and anti-kickback laws apply only to goods and services covered by Medicaid. Other states’ antifraud and anti-kickback laws apply to all healthcare goods and services, regardless of whether the source of payment is governmental or private. In recent years, federal and state government agencies have increased the level of enforcement resources and activities targeted at the healthcare industry. In addition, federal law allows individuals to bring lawsuits on behalf of the government in what are known as qui tam or “whistleblower” actions, alleging false or fraudulent Medicare or Medicaid claims and certain other violations of federal law. The use of these private enforcement actions against healthcare providers and their business is increasing, in part, because the individual filing the initial complaint is entitled to share in a portion of any settlement or judgment if successful. Anti-Referral Laws. The federal law generally known as the Stark law provides that, if a physician or a member of a physician’s immediate family has a financial relationship with a designated healthcare service entity, the physician may not make referrals to that entity for the furnishing of designated health services covered under Medicare or Medicaid unless one of several specific exceptions applies. For purposes of the Stark law, a financial relationship with a healthcare entity includes an ownership or investment interest in that entity or a compensation relationship with that entity. Designated health services include physical and occupational therapy services, durable medical equipment, home health services, and inpatient and outpatient hospital services. CMS has promulgated regulations interpreting the Stark law and, in instances where the Stark law applies to our activities, we have instituted policies which set standards intended to prevent violations of the Stark law. The federal government will make no payment for designated health services provided in violation of the Stark law. In addition, sanctions for violating the Stark law include civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per prohibited service provided and exclusion from any federal, state, or other government healthcare programs. A number of states have statutes that prohibit the same general types of conduct as that prohibited by the federal Stark law. Some states’ Stark laws apply only to goods and services covered by Medicaid. Other states’ Stark laws apply to certain designated healthcare goods and services, regardless of whether the source of payment is a governmental or private payor. - 14 - - Corporate Compliance Program. In recognition of the importance of achieving and maintaining regulatory compliance and establishing a culture of ethical conduct, we have a corporate compliance program that defines standards of conduct and procedures that are intended to promote compliance with applicable laws and promote proper behavior. The Office of Inspector General has published guidelines for corporate compliance programs for certain types of healthcare organizations. Those guidelines encourage the following seven elements in any compliance program: (1) implementation of written standards of conduct; (2) designation of a Chief Compliance Officer with the responsibility and necessary authority to implement and enforce the compliance program, (3) regular employee education and training; (4) effective reporting lines of communication such as a “hotline;” (5) use of audits or other risk evaluation techniques; (6) disciplinary systems that consistently enforce the program standards; and (7) response and remediation systems. Our compliance program has been designed and operates to serve those seven elements. In the recognition of the importance of compliance in our business environment, we have created a separate Compliance Committee comprised of three independent members of our board of directors. Our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Committee as well as to the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for overseeing the design, ongoing enhancement, and implementation of our compliance program. We believe these safeguards help us to conduct our operations in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and internal company standards. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 18,200 employees, approximately 9,200 of whom were full-time employees, including approximately 5,300 employees in our program management business, 3,400 employees in our hospitals and 500 employees in our corporate offices. The physicians who are the medical directors in our managed IRFs and hospitals are independent contractors and not our employees. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Non-Audit Services Performed by Independent Accountants Pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are responsible for disclosing to investors the non-audit services approved by our audit committee to be performed by KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm. Non-audit services are defined as services other than those provided in connection with an audit or a review of our financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we did not receive any non-audit services performed by KPMG. Web Site Access to Reports Our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs, definitive proxy statements, Form 8-Ks, and any amendments to those reports are made available free of charge on our web site at www.rehabcare.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. - 15 - - Our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to attract, develop and retain our operational personnel. Our success is dependent on attracting, developing and retaining operational personnel, especially those individuals who are responsible for operating the inpatient units, outpatient programs and contract therapy locations in our program management business and our hospitals. In particular, we rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified recruiters, area managers, program managers, regional managers and hospital administrators. The available pool of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited and the competition for labor in the healthcare industry is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and develop qualified people to fill these essential positions and we may not be able to retain them once they are employed. Shortages of qualified therapists, nurses and other healthcare personnel could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as therapists and other allied healthcare professionals. We rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain therapists, nurses and other healthcare personnel who possess the skills, experience and, as required, the licensure necessary to meet the specified requirements of our business. In some markets, the availability of therapists and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. Current and future shortages of such skilled labor may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits in order to recruit and retain qualified personnel, or it may require us to hire more costly temporary personnel. We must continually evaluate, train and upgrade our employees to keep pace with clients’ and patients’ needs. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel, the quality of our services may decline and we may lose customers. Unionization activities could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we are not aware of any current activities to organize our employees. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. If our employees were to unionize, we could experience an increase in labor and other costs. Furthermore, we could experience a disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs if our employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage. Fluctuations in census levels and patient visits may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our program management business is directly affected by the census levels, or the number of patients per unit, in the inpatient programs that we manage and the number of visits in the outpatient programs that we manage. The profitability of our hospitals business is also directly affected by the census levels at each of our hospitals. Reduction in census levels or patient visits within facilities, units or programs that we own or manage may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements of our clients for the rehabilitation services managed by us, our rehabilitation program management services clients could attempt to renegotiate our contracts with them, which may reduce our revenues and profitability. - 16 - - Most of the patients cared for in our facilities are beneficiaries of government sponsored programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In an effort to control the expanding costs of the Medicare program, CMS and Congress periodically change benefits and reimbursement levels. Changes in the rates of or conditions for government reimbursement, including policies related to Medicare and Medicaid, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to our clients for rehabilitation services performed in the programs managed by us and, in turn, our clients may attempt to renegotiate the terms of our contracts. Medicaid reimbursement is a significant revenue source for skilled nursing facilities and other long-term care facilities where contract therapy services are provided. Reductions in Medicaid reimbursement could negatively impact skilled nursing facilities and long-term care facilities which, in turn, could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our contract therapy business. If we do not manage admissions in the IRFs that we manage or own in compliance with the 60% Rule, reimbursement for services rendered by us in those IRF settings will be based on less favorable rates. IRFs are subject to the 60% Rule which now requires that 60% or more of the patients admitted to the facilities have one or more of 13 specific conditions in order to qualify for the IRF prospective payment system (“PPS”). If that compliance threshold is not maintained, the IRF will be reimbursed at the lower PPS applicable to acute care hospitals. That may lead to reduced revenue in our owned IRFs and may also lead our IRF clients to attempt to renegotiate the terms of our contracts or terminate our contracts, in either case adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. If there are changes in the rate or methods of government reimbursement for services provided by our hospitals, the revenue and profitability of those hospitals may be adversely affected. In our hospitals business, we are directly reimbursed for a significant number of the patients we treat in those facilities through government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare. Changes in the rates of or conditions for government reimbursement could reduce the amounts reimbursed to our facilities and in turn could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our hospitals business. We conduct business in a heavily regulated healthcare industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and state regulation relating to, among other things: · facility and professional licensure; · conduct of operations; · certain clinical procedures; · addition of facilities and services, including certificates of need; · coding and billing for services; and · payment for services. Both federal and state government agencies have increased coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts related to the healthcare industry. Regulations related to the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of those laws. Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse laws prohibit certain business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs, including the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce or arrange for referral of patients or recommendation for the provision of items or services covered by Medicare or Medicaid or any other federal or state healthcare program. Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims, including claims to obtain reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid. Although we have implemented a compliance program to help assure compliance with these regulations as they become effective, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations in the future could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or the manner in which we conduct our business. If we fail to comply with government regulations, we or our clients could lose reimbursements or suffer civil or criminal penalties, which could result in cancellation of our contracts and a decrease in revenues. - 17 - - Congress is currently considering various healthcare reform measures. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that new legislation or any other healthcare reform measures being considered by Congress would have on our business if adopted. Beyond these healthcare industry-specific regulatory risks, we are also subject to all of the same federal, state and local rules and regulations that apply to other publicly traded companies and large employers. We are subject to a myriad of federal, state and local laws regulating, for example, the issuance of securities, employee rights and benefits, workers compensation and safety, and many other activities attendant with our business. Failure to comply with such regulations, even if unintentional, could materially impact our financial results. If our LTACHs fail to maintain their certification as long-term acute care hospitals, then our profitability may decline. As of December 31, 2009, 27 of our 28 long-term acute care hospitals were certified by Medicare as LTACHs, with one hospital pending LTACH certification. If our LTACHs fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long-term acute care hospitals, such as average minimum length of patient stay, they will receive payments under the PPS applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than payment under the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would result in our LTACHs receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services and our profit margins would likely decrease. Expiration of the moratorium imposed on certain federal regulations otherwise applicable to LTACHs operated as freestanding or grandfathered “hospital in a hospital” (“HIH”) or grandfathered “satellites” may have an adverse effect on our future net operating revenues and profitability. Medicare payments to our LTACHs are made pursuant to PPS applicable to LTACHs (“LTACH-PPS”). In addition, some LTACHs are subject to the so-called 25% Rule which requires that 25% or fewer of the patients admitted to the facility are referred from the same source. Admissions beyond the 25% threshold are paid using lower inpatient PPS rates. On May 1, 2007, CMS released a final rule extending the 25% Rule to all LTACHs, including those LTACHs that have previously operated under a statutory grandfathering exemption. We refer to such final rule as “the May 2007 final rule.” Prior to the May 2007 final rule, the 25% admissions threshold was applicable only to Medicare HIH admissions from hospitals co-located with an LTACH or LTACH satellite. Under the May 2007 final rule, HIHs that admit Medicare patients from non-co-located hospitals, freestanding LTACHs and grandfathered LTACH HIHs are subject to the Medicare admission thresholds. To the extent that any LTACH’s or LTACH satellite facility’s discharges that are admitted from an individual hospital (regardless of whether the referring hospital is co-located with the LTACH or LTACH satellite) exceed the applicable percentage threshold during a particular cost reporting period, the payment rate for those discharges would be subject to a downward payment adjustment. Cases admitted in excess of the applicable threshold would be reimbursed at inpatient PPS rates which are generally lower than LTACH-PPS rates. Outlier status cases do not count toward the threshold and would be paid under LTACH-PPS. - 18 - - The 2007 SCHIP Extension Act provided regulatory relief for a three year period to LTACHs to ensure continued access to current long-term acute care hospital services. Specifically, the legislation prevented CMS from implementing a new payment provision for short stay outlier cases and provided that the 25% Rule will not be applied to freestanding LTACHs and grandfathered LTACHs such as the one we operate in New Orleans until after cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2010. When the three-year moratorium period expires on December 31, 2010, the May 2007 final rule will be applied as it was originally written unless the moratorium is extended through new legislation. When the moratorium expires, it could have an adverse financial impact on our net operating revenues and profitability. The moratorium on the Medicare certification of new LTACHs and beds in existing LTACHs could limit our ability to increase LTACH bed capacity, expand into new geographic regions, or increase services in existing areas we serve. The 2007 SCHIP Extension Act imposed a three-year moratorium, beginning on December 29, 2007, on the establishment and classification of new LTACHs, LTACH satellite facilities and LTACH beds in existing LTACH or satellite facilities. The moratorium does not apply to LTACHs that, before December 29, 2007, (i) began the qualifying period for payment under the LTACH-PPS, (ii) had a written agreement with an unrelated party for the construction, renovation, lease or demolition for a LTACH and had expended at least 10% of the estimated cost of the project or $2,500,000, or (iii) had obtained an approved certificate of need. The moratorium also does not apply to an increase in beds in an existing hospital or satellite facility if the LTACH is located in a state where there is only one other LTACH and the LTACH requests an increase in beds following the closure or the decrease in the number of beds of the other LTACH. We may acquire LTACHs that were in existence prior to December 29, 2007, and would not expect this moratorium to materially impact our strategy to expand by acquiring additional LTACHs if such LTACHs can be acquired at attractive valuations. This moratorium could, however, otherwise adversely affect our ability to increase LTACH bed capacity, expand into new geographic regions, or increase bed capacity in existing areas we serve. Changes in federal or state law limiting or prohibiting certain physician referrals may preclude physicians from investing in our hospitals or referring to hospitals in which they already own an interest. The federal self referral law, or “Stark Law,” prohibits a physician who has a financial relationship with an entity from referring his or her Medicare or Medicaid patients to that entity for certain designated health services, including inpatient and outpatient hospital services. Under current law, physicians who have a direct or indirect ownership interest in a hospital will not be prohibited from referring to the hospital because of the applicability of the “whole hospital exception” to the Stark Law. Various healthcare reform bills introduced in Congress have included provisions that further restrict physician ownership in hospitals to which the physician refers patients. These provisions would typically limit the Stark Law’s “whole hospital exception” to existing hospitals with physician ownership. Physicians with ownership in “new” hospitals would be prohibited from referring to that hospital. Certain requirements and limitations would also be placed on existing hospitals with physician ownership, such as limiting the expansion of any such hospital and limiting the amount and terms of physician investment. Furthermore, initiatives are underway in some states to restrict physician referrals to physician-owned hospitals. There can be no assurance that new legislation or regulation prohibiting or limiting physician referrals to physician-owned hospitals will not be successfully enacted in the future. If such federal or state laws are adopted, among other outcomes, physicians who have invested in, or considered investing in, our hospitals could be precluded from referring to, investing in or continuing to be physician owners of a hospital. In addition, expansion of our physician-owned hospitals may be limited, and the revenues, profitability and overall financial performance of our hospitals may be negatively affected. - 19 - - Our hospitals may be unable to reduce costs to offset completely any decreases in our revenues. As of December 31, 2009, we owned and operated 28 LTACHs and six IRFs operating in 13 states. Reduced levels of occupancy in our facilities and reductions in reimbursements from Medicare, Medicaid or other payors would adversely impact our revenues and liquidity. We may be unable to put in place corresponding reductions in costs in response to declines in census or other revenue shortfalls. The inability to timely adjust our operations to address a decrease in our revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our program management business operates in a highly competitive and fragmented market, and our success in that business depends on our ability to demonstrate that we can provide rehabilitation services more efficiently than our potential clients. Competition for our program management business is highly fragmented and intense. Hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other long-term care facilities that do not choose to outsource the management of their physical rehabilitation services are the primary competitors of our program management business. The fundamental challenge in our program management business is demonstrating to potential clients, primarily hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and other long-term care facilities, that we can provide rehabilitation services more efficiently than they can themselves. The programs we manage are in highly competitive markets and compete for patients with hospitals, skilled nursing facilities and long-term care facilities, as well as other larger companies such as HealthSouth Corporation, Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Select Medical Corporation. Some of these competitors may be better capitalized, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and their managers may have stronger relationships with physicians in the communities that they serve. All of these factors could give our competitors an advantage over us. Competition may restrict our future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions or enter into joint ownership agreements at reasonable valuations. We have historically faced competition in acquiring companies or entering into joint ownership agreements with partners in facilities complementary to our lines of business. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the companies that would be suitable candidates for acquisition by us or enter into or seek to enter into joint ownership agreements with entities that would be suitable partners for us. This could limit our ability to grow by either acquisitions or joint ownership agreements, or make the cost of acquisitions or joint ownership arrangements higher and less attractive to us. We may face difficulties integrating acquisitions into our operations, and our acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Our joint ownership arrangements may be subject to similar difficulties, require significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. - 20 - - We expect to continue pursuing acquisitions and joint ownership arrangements, each of which involve numerous risks, including: · difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; · disagreements with our joint ownership partners; · incomplete due diligence or misunderstanding as to the target company’s future prospects; · diversion of management attention and capital resources from existing operations; · short-term (or longer lasting) dilution in the value of our shares; · over-paying for an acquired company or joint ownership entity due to incorrect analysis or because of competition from other companies for the same target; · inability to achieve forecasted revenues, cost savings or other synergies; · potential loss of key employees, customers or relationships; and · assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired or joint ownership companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. These acquisitions and joint ownership arrangements may also result in significant cash expenditures, incurrence of debt, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability, fraud, labor violations or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve complex claims that can be extraordinarily broad given the scope of our operations. They may also entail significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance, general liability insurance and employment practices liability coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. Our success depends on retention of our key officers. Our future success depends in significant part on the continued service of our key officers. Competition for these individuals is intense and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key officers or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified executives in the future. The loss of any of our key officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. We may have future capital needs and any future issuances of equity securities may result in dilution of the value of our common stock. We anticipate that the amounts generated internally, together with amounts available under our credit facility, will be sufficient to implement our business plan for the foreseeable future, subject to additional needs that may arise if unexpected events occur or if a substantial acquisition or other growth opportunity becomes available. We may obtain additional capital through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities. If we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. We cannot be assured that additional capital will be available, or available on terms favorable to us. If capital is not available, we may not be able to fund internal or external business expansion or respond to competitive pressures. - 21 - - We incurred substantial indebtedness to consummate the acquisition of Triumph and we may be unable to service or refinance this debt, which could have negative consequences on our business in the future and may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. As of December 31, 2009, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $464.2 million and total consolidated stockholders’ equity of $437.3 million. This high level of debt could have negative consequences. For example, it could: · result in our inability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit facilities; · increase our vulnerability to adverse industry and general economic conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital investments and other business activities; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital investments and other business activities; · limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are commercially reasonable, or at all; · expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations to the extent we pay interest at variable rates on the debt; · limit our flexibility to plan for, and react to, changes in our business and our industry; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our less leveraged competitors. Our senior credit facilities contain restrictions that may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our senior credit facilities contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: · incur or guarantee additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; · pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain subordinated debt or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or certain subordinated debt; · make certain investments; · create liens on our or our subsidiaries’ assets; · make distributions from our joint ventures; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · merge or consolidate with another person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; · enter into sales leaseback transactions; · sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; · alter the business that we conduct; and · change our fiscal year. In addition, we are required to maintain a total leverage ratio, a senior leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio which become more restrictive over time. A breach of any covenant contained in the senior credit facilities could result in a default under those agreements. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior credit facilities may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the senior credit facilities will also have the right upon an event of default thereunder to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If the debt under the senior credit facilities were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full that debt or any other debt that may become due as a result of that acceleration. - 22 - - Uncertainty in the financial markets could limit the availability and terms of debt financing sources to fund the capital and liquidity requirements of our business. One of the primary risks relating to current market conditions is the possibility that the lenders under our credit agreement will be unable to provide liquidity when needed. While we are not aware of any specific risks involving our counterparties, there can be no assurance that all of the lenders to our credit agreement will fulfill their commitments if we need to make additional draws against our revolving credit facility. In addition, a rapid increase in interest rates and/or a decline in our operating performance could impair our ability to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit facility. A default due to the violation of these covenants could require us to immediately repay all amounts then outstanding under the credit facility. If we anticipate a potential covenant violation, we would seek relief from our lenders; however, such relief might not be granted or might be granted on terms less favorable than those in our existing credit agreement. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all debt covenants. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to facility infrastructure failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. We also retain confidential patient information in our database. It is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by clients as secure. A material security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability to us. Despite the implementation of security measures, we may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning or unavailability of our information systems. From time to time, we may also modify our information systems to take advantage of new technologies. Such modifications may cause temporary disruptions to the operations of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations in the periods affected. Natural disasters, pandemics and other unexpected events, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane and tornado and other events such as pandemic, power loss, computer virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data and/or delay or impair our ability to service our clients and patients. We have in place a disaster recovery plan that is intended to provide us with the ability to restore critical information systems; however, we do not have full redundancy for all of our information systems in the event of a natural disaster. There can be no assurance that our disaster recovery plan will prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations if a natural disaster were to occur. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. - 23 - - Changes in federal and state income tax laws and regulations or adverse decisions by regulatory taxing authorities could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. United States generally accepted accounting principles require financial statement recognition of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position. Management believes its estimates and judgments related to its uncertain tax positions are reasonable. Nevertheless, the ultimate resolution of our tax matters could differ from management’s estimates and such differences could be material. See Note 14 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our uncertain tax positions. We are exposed to the credit risk of our payors which in the future may cause us to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs. Due to deteriorating economic conditions or other factors, commercial payors and customers may default on their payments to us and individual patients may default on co-payments and deductibles for which they are responsible under the terms of either commercial insurance programs or Medicare. Although we review the credit risk of our commercial payors and customers regularly, such risks will nevertheless arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to anticipate or control, such as a general economic downturn. If our payors default on their payments to us in the future, we may have to make larger allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which may have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Different interpretations of accounting principles could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. U. S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by third parties, including the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of GAAP could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 24 - - 