ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our operational personnel. Our success is dependent on the performance of our operational personnel, especially those individuals who are responsible for operating the inpatient units, outpatient programs and contract therapy relationships in our program management business and our freestanding specialty hospitals. In particular, we rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified recruiters, area managers, program managers, regional managers and hospital administrators. The available pool of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited. In addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development and support of these individuals. We may not be able to continue to attract and develop qualified people to fill these essential positions and we may not be able to retain them once they are employed. Shortages of qualified therapists and other healthcare personnel could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as physical therapists and other healthcare professionals. We rely significantly on our ability to attract, develop and retain therapists and other healthcare personnel who possess the skills, experience and, as required, licensure necessary to meet the specified requirements of our business. In some markets, the availability of physical therapists and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We must continually evaluate, train and upgrade our employee base to keep pace with clients' needs. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel, the quality of our services may decline and we may lose customers. Fluctuations in census levels and patient visits may adversely affect the revenues and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our program management business is directly affected by the census levels, or the number of patients per unit, in the inpatient programs that we manage and the number of visits in the outpatient programs that we manage. The profitability of our freestanding hospitals business is also directly affected by the census levels at each of our hospitals. Reduction in census levels or patient visits within facilities, units or programs that we own or manage may negatively affect our revenues and profitability. If there are changes in the rates or methods of government reimbursements of our clients for the rehabilitation services managed by us, our program management services’ clients could attempt to renegotiate our contracts with them, which may reduce our revenues. In our program management business, we are directly reimbursed for only a small fraction of the services we provide or manage through government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. However, changes in the rates of or conditions for government reimbursement, - 17 - including policies related to Medicare and Medicaid, could substantially reduce the amounts reimbursed to our clients for physical rehabilitation services performed in the programs managed by us and, in turn, our clients may attempt to renegotiate the terms which may reduce revenues under our contracts. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement is a significant revenue source for nursing homes and other long-term care facilities for which contract therapy services are provided. Medicaid is a joint federal/state reimbursement program administered by states in accordance with Title XIX of the Social Security Act. Medicaid certification and reimbursement varies on a state-by-state basis. Reductions in Medicaid reimbursement could negatively impact nursing homes and long-term care facilities, which in turn could adversely affect our contract therapy business. Failure of nursing homes or long-term care providers with which we contract to comply with the various states' Medicaid participation requirements similarly could adversely affect our contract therapy business. If there are changes in the rate or methods of government reimbursement for services provided by our freestanding hospitals, the profitability of those hospitals may be adversely affected. In our freestanding hospitals business, we are directly reimbursed for a significant portion of the services we provide through government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare. Changes in the rates of or conditions for government reimbursement could substantially reduce the amounts reimbursed to our facilities and in turn could adversely affect the profitability of our business. We conduct business in a heavily regulated healthcare industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that reduce our revenue and profitability. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive federal and state laws and regulations related to: • facility and professional licensure; • conduct of operations; • certain clinical procedures; • addition of facilities and services, including certificates of need; and • payment for services. Both federal and state government agencies are increasing coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts related to the healthcare industry. In addition, laws and regulations related to the healthcare industry are extremely complex and, in many instances, the industry does not have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of those laws. Medicare and Medicaid antifraud and abuse provisions, known as the "anti-kickback statute," prohibit specified business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs, including the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce or arrange for referral of patients or recommendation for the provision of items or services covered by Medicare or Medicaid or any other federal or state healthcare program. Various federal laws prohibit the submission of false or fraudulent claims, including claims to obtain reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Although we have implemented a program to assure compliance with these regulations as they become effective, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations in the future could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, operating expenses or the manner in which we conduct our business. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and government regulations, we or our clients - 18 - could lose reimbursements or suffer civil or criminal penalties, which could result in cancellation of our contracts and a decrease in revenues. Beyond these healthcare industry-specific regulatory risks, we are also subject to all of the same federal, state, and local rules and regulations that apply to other publicly traded companies and large employers. We are subject to a myriad of federal, state, and local laws regulating, for example, the issuance of securities, employee rights and benefits, workers compensation and safety, and many other activities attendant with our business. Failure to comply with such regulations, even if unintentional, could materially impact our financial results. If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to maintain their certification as long-term acute care hospitals, our profitability may decline. As of December 31, 2005, two of our five freestanding specialty hospitals were certified by Medicare as long-term acute care hospitals. If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to meet or maintain the standards for certification as long-term acute care hospitals, such as average minimum length of patient stay, they will receive payments under the prospective payment system applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than payment under the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would likely result in our long-term acute care hospitals receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. If our long-term acute care hospitals were to be subject to payment as general acute care hospitals, our profit margins would likely decrease. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented market and our success depends on our ability to demonstrate that we offer a more efficient solution to our customers’ rehabilitation program objectives. Competition for our program management business is highly fragmented and dispersed. Hospitals, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities that do not choose to outsource their acute rehabilitation and skilled nursing units, outpatient therapy programs and contract therapy services are the primary competitors with our program management business. The fundamental challenge in our program management business is convincing our potential clients, primarily hospitals, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities, that we can provide rehabilitation services more efficiently than they can themselves. The inpatient units and outpatient programs that we manage are in highly competitive markets and compete for patients with other hospitals, nursing homes and long-term care facilities, as well as other public companies such as HealthSouth Corporation. Some of these competitors may have greater name recognition and longer operating histories in the market than the unit or program that we manage and their managers may have stronger relationships with physicians in the communities that they serve. All of these factors could give our competitors an advantage for patient referrals. We may face difficulties integrating recent and future acquisitions into our operations, and our acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures, or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We expect to continue pursuing acquisitions and joint ownership arrangements, each of which involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; • incomplete due diligence or misunderstanding as to the target company’s liabilities or future prospects; • diversion of management attention and capital resources from existing operations; - 19 - • short term (or longer lasting) dilution in the value of our shares; • over paying for a target company due to incorrect analysis or because of competition from other companies for the same target; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare regulations. These acquisitions and joint ownership arrangements may also result in significant cash expenditures, incurrence of debt, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and other expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition or joint ownership arrangement may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Competition may restrict our future growth by limiting our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable valuations. We have historically faced competition in acquiring companies complimentary to our lines of business. Our competitors may acquire or seek to acquire many of the companies that would be suitable candidates for acquisition by us. This could limit our ability to grow by acquisitions or make the cost of acquisitions higher and less accretive to us. Our unconsolidated subsidiaries may continue to incur operating losses. At December 31, 2005, we held minority equity investments in InteliStaf Holdings, Inc. and Howard Regional Specialty Care, LLC. At that date, the carrying values of these investments were approximately $2.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. Under accounting rules, we do not consolidate the financial condition and results of operations of these businesses, but instead account for our investments in these businesses under the equity method of accounting, which requires us to record our share of the subsidiaries’ earnings or losses in our statement of earnings. In recent periods, these businesses have incurred losses, and in the case of InteliStaf, we incurred a significant charge in 2005 to write down the value of our investment. If our unconsolidated subsidiaries continue to incur losses, we do not believe such losses would have a material effect on our consolidated financial position; however, they could have a material effect on our results of operations in a particular quarter or fiscal year. Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability, fraud, or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve complex claims that can be extraordinarily broad given the scope of our operations. They may also entail significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance, general liability insurance, and employment practices liability coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. However, our insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. - 20 - Our success is dependent on retention of our key officers. Our future success depends in significant part on the continued service of our key officers. Competition for these individuals is intense and there can be no assurance that we will retain our key officers or that we can attract or retain other highly qualified executives in the future. The loss of any of our key officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects. We are dependent on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems. We are dependent on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards. However, they are still vulnerable to facility infrastructure failure, fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. We do not have full redundancy for all of our computer and telecommunications facilities and do not maintain a back-up computing facility. Our business interruption insurance may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a catastrophe. We also retain confidential patient information in our database. It is critical that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by clients as secure. A material security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability to us. Despite the implementation of security measures, we may be vulnerable to losses associated with the improper functioning or unavailability of our information systems. We may have future capital needs and any future issuances of equity securities may result in dilution of the value of our common stock. We anticipate that the amounts generated internally together with amounts available under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to implement our business plan for the foreseeable future, subject to additional needs that may arise if a substantial acquisition or other growth opportunity becomes available. We may need additional capital if unexpected events occur or opportunities arise. We may obtain additional capital through the public or private sale of debt or equity securities. If we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. Furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. We cannot be assured that additional capital will be available, or available on terms favorable to us. If capital is not available, we may not be able to fund internal or external business expansion or respond to competitive pressures. Natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires and floods, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our clients and patients. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to maintain fully redundant systems for our operations in the event of a natural disaster utilizing various alternate sites provided by a national disaster recovery vendor. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. There can also be no assurance that our disaster recovery plan will prevent damage or interruption of our systems and operations if a natural disaster were to occur. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 21 - ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 