Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. Industry cyclicality can affect our earnings, especially due to fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients and chicken. Profitability in the poultry industry is materially affected by the commodity prices of feed ingredients, chicken, and, to a lesser extent, alternative proteins. These prices are determined by supply and demand factors, and supply and demand factors in respect of feed ingredients and chicken may not correlate. For example, grain prices during 2011 were high, while prices for chicken products did not increase proportionally, and the Company lost money. During 2012 and 2013, grain prices remained high, but market prices for chicken also increased, and the Company was profitable. As a result, the poultry industry is subject to wide fluctuations that are called cycles. Typically we do well when chicken prices are high and feed prices are low. We do less well, and sometimes have losses, when chicken prices are low and feed prices are high. It is very difficult to predict when these cycles will occur. All we can safely predict is that they do and will occur. Various factors can affect the supply of corn and soybean meal, which are the primary ingredients of the feed we use. In particular, global weather patterns, including adverse weather conditions that may result from climate change, the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, currency fluctuations and the agricultural and energy policies of the United States and foreign governments all affect the supply of feed ingredients. Weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A sudden and significant change in weather patterns could affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry’s and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens or deliver products. For example, historic drought conditions in the Midwestern United States in 2012 had a significant adverse effect on the supply and price of feed grains in fiscal 2012 and the first three quarters of 2013. In recent years, demand for corn from ethanol producers has resulted in sharply higher costs for corn and other grains. Increases in the prices of feed ingredients will result in increases in raw material costs and operating costs. Because prices for our products are related to the commodity prices of chickens, which depend on the supply and demand dynamics of fresh chicken, we typically are not able to increase our product prices to offset these increased grain costs. We periodically enter into contracts to purchase feed ingredients at current prices for future delivery to manage our feed ingredient costs. This practice could reduce, but does not eliminate, the risk of increased operating costs from commodity price increases. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in our grain buying strategy, we could actually pay a higher cost for feed ingredients than we would if we purchased at current prices for current delivery. Prepared chicken and poultry inventories, and inventories of feed, eggs, medication, packaging supplies and live chickens, are stated on our balance sheet at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market value. Our cost of sales is calculated during a period by adding the value of our inventories at the beginning of the period to the cost of growing, processing and distributing products produced during the period and subtracting the value of our inventories at the end of the period. If the market prices of our inventories are below the accumulated cost of those inventories at the end of a period, we would record adjustments to write down the carrying value of the inventory from cost to market value. These write-downs would directly increase our cost of sales by the amount of the write-downs. This risk is greatest when the costs of feed ingredients are high and the market value for finished poultry products is declining. For example, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2011, we recorded a charge of $9 million to lower the value of live broiler inventories on hand at that date from cost to estimated market value because the estimated market price for the products to be produced from those live chickens, when sold, was estimated to be below the estimated cost to grow, process and distribute those chickens. The $9 million adjustment to inventory on October 31, 2011, 14 Table of Contents effectively absorbed into fiscal 2011 a portion of the costs to grow, process and distribute chickens that we would have otherwise incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, thereby benefitting fiscal 2012. Any similar adjustments that we make in the future could be material, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company made no such adjustment during fiscal 2013. Outbreaks of avian disease, such as avian influenza, or the perception that outbreaks may occur, can significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations and can significantly affect demand for our products. We take reasonable precautions to ensure that our flocks are healthy and that our processing plants and other facilities operate in a sanitary and environmentally sound manner. Nevertheless, events beyond our control, such as the outbreak of avian disease, even if it does not affect our flocks, could significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations or our sales. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of fresh and frozen chicken, including our fresh and frozen chicken products, or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and prospects. In addition, world-wide fears about avian disease, such as avian influenza, have, in the past, depressed demand for fresh chicken, which adversely impacted our sales. In previous years there has been substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic Asian strain of avian influenza, or AI, known as H5N1, which has affected Asia since 2002 and which has been found in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. It is widely believed that this strain of AI is spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. There have also been some cases where this strain of AI is believed to have passed from birds to humans as humans came into contact with live birds that were infected with the disease. During the first calendar quarter of 2013, there was also substantial publicity regarding a low pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H7N9, which affected eastern and northern China. It is widely believed that H7N9 circulates in wild birds and may have been transmitted to domestic poultry in live bird markets in and around Shanghai and Beijing. It is also believed that the virus has passed from live birds to humans as humans came into contact with live birds that were infected with the disease. Through May 2013, the virus was believed to have sickened at least 130 people and caused at least 33 deaths. There have been no reported incidents of the virus since May. No human to human transmission of the disease has been proven, and there is no evidence to suggest that the consumption of properly prepared and cooked poultry could transmit the virus to humans. However, fear associated with this outbreak dampened demand for poultry, including our products, in the affected areas of China. A recurrence of this outbreak, or others similar to it, could have a material negative effect on world demand for poultry, including demand for our products. Although the Asian strains of AI have not been identified in North America, there have been outbreaks of both low and high pathogenic strains of avian influenza in North America, including in the U.S. in 2002 and 2004 and in Mexico in 2005 and 2012. In addition, low pathogenic strains of the AI virus were detected in wild birds in the United States in 2006. During fiscal 2013, a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H7N3, affected live poultry in several states in central Mexico. The Company has no operations in Mexico, and our live chickens have not been affected by this outbreak. However, in an effort to prevent the spread of the virus, the Mexican government and poultry industry reportedly culled approximately 27.5 million birds and undertook an extensive vaccination program in the affected areas of the country. These practices reduced the supply of available poultry in Mexico, and increased demand in Mexico for poultry produced in the United States, including our products. Although the outbreaks in North America have not generated the same level of concern, or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products in certain countries as that associated with the Asian strains, they have nevertheless impacted our sales. Accordingly, even if the Asian strains do not spread to North America, we cannot assure you that they will not materially adversely affect domestic or international demand for poultry produced in North America, and, if they were to spread to North America, we cannot assure you that they would not significantly affect our operations or the demand for our products, in each case in a manner having a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or prospects. A decrease in demand for our products in the export markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Nearly all of our customers are based in the United States, but some of our product is sold directly to foreign customers, and some of our United States based customers resell poultry products in the export markets. Our 15 Table of Contents chicken products are sold in Russia and other former Soviet countries, China and Mexico, among other countries. Approximately 10.6% of our gross sales in fiscal 2013 were to export markets, including $49.4 million to Russia, $77.0 million to Mexico and $55.8 million to China. Any disruption to the export markets, such as trade embargos, tariffs, import bans, duties or quotas could materially impact our sales or create an oversupply of chicken in the United States. This, in turn, could cause domestic poultry prices to decline. Any quotas or bans in the future could materially and adversely affect our sales and our results of operations. On January 19, 2010, Russia banned imports of U.S. poultry, citing its concerns about the practice in the United States of treating poultry meat with chlorinated water during processing. On February 5, 2010, China announced that it would impose anti-dumping duties on U.S. chicken products beginning on February 13, 2010. The duty applicable to Sanderson Farms products was 64.5%. On April 28, 2010, China imposed countervailing duties on United States chicken products, raising the duty applicable to Sanderson Farms’ products by 6.1% to 70.6%. The total duties were later lowered to 59.2%. Following the imposition of the Russian embargo and the Chinese duty, we and our customers who resell our frozen chicken product to Russia and China were able, for a period of time, to sell those products in alternative markets without a significant price disadvantage. However, our customers who resell or previously resold our frozen chicken products in China commenced selling a portion of those products in China and paying the applicable duty. This lowered their return and the price they were willing to pay us, reducing our revenues and profits. A challenge to China’s anti-dumping determination was filed by the U.S. Government with the World Trade Organization (WTO), which ruled in favor of the U.S. on September 25, 2013. China did not appeal the WTO ruling, but it could be several months before the duties are removed. In the case of Russia, an agreement between the governments of the United States and Russia was reached in July 2010 pursuant to which poultry meat processed pursuant to the standards demanded by Russia and incorporated into the agreement may be shipped to Russia. On August 6, 2012, Mexico imposed anti-dumping duties on chicken drumstick and thigh imports from the United States, establishing the duty applicable to Sanderson Farms’ products at 25.7%. However, Mexico suspended the implementation of the duties amidst concerns that food inflation may occur as a result. While we do not know whether or when Mexico might impose the anti-dumping duties, their implementation could reduce our revenues and profits. On October 2, 2012, pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the U.S. poultry industry, including Sanderson Farms, Inc., filed a complaint challenging the anti-dumping determination issued by Mexico. The complaint is currently pending. The poultry industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. In general, the competitive factors in the U.S. poultry industry include: • price; • product quality; • brand identification; • breadth of product line and • customer service. Competitive factors vary by major markets. In the food service market, competition is based on consistent quality, product development, service and price. In the U.S. retail grocery market, we believe that competition is based on product quality, brand awareness, price and customer service. Our success depends in part on our ability to manage costs and be efficient in the highly competitive poultry industry. The loss of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales to our top ten customers represented approximately 47.8% of our net sales during the 2013 fiscal year. Our non-chill pack customers, with all of whom we do not have long-term contracts, could significantly reduce or cease their purchases from us with little or no advance notice, which could materially and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet their preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. We introduce new products and improved products from time to time and incur significant development and marketing cost. If our products fail to meet consumer preference, then our strategy to grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. Inclement weather, such as excessive heat or storms, could hurt our flocks, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Extreme weather in the Gulf South and Mid-Atlantic regions where we operate, such as extreme temperatures, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of our flocks or interfere with our hatching, production or shipping operations. Some scientists believe that climate change could increase the frequency and severity of adverse weather events. Extreme weather, regardless of its cause, could affect our business due to power outages; fuel shortages; damage to infrastructure from powerful winds, rising water or extreme temperatures; disruption of shipping channels; less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by adverse weather or increased costs of insurance coverage in the aftermath of such events, among other things. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to recover through insurance all of the damages, losses or costs that may result from weather events, including those that may be caused by climate change. We rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We depend substantially on the leadership of a small number of executive officers and other key employees. We have employment agreements with only three of these persons (our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and our Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer), and those with whom we have no agreement would not be bound by non-competition agreements or non-solicitation agreements if they were to leave us. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to attract, retain and train the new management personnel we need for our new complexes, or do so at the pace necessary to sustain our significant company growth. We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees and contract growers. We have approximately 11,271 employees, approximately 27.7% of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, we contract with approximately 800 independent contract poultry producers in Mississippi, Texas, North Carolina and Georgia for the grow-out of our breeder and broiler stock and the production of broiler eggs. Our operations depend on the availability of labor and contract growers and maintaining good relations with these persons and with labor unions. If we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages. If we do not attract and maintain contracts with our growers, including new growers for our new poultry complexes, our production operations could be negatively impacted and/or our growth could be restrained. Failure of our information technology infrastructure or software could adversely affect our day-to-day operations and decision making processes and have an adverse effect on our performance. We depend on accurate and timely information and numerical data from key software applications to aid our day-to-day business, financial reporting and decision-making and, in many cases, proprietary and custom-designed software is necessary to operate equipment in our feed mills, hatcheries and processing plants. We have put in place disaster recovery plans for our critical systems. However, any disruption caused by the failure of these systems, the underlying equipment, or communication networks could delay or otherwise adversely impact our day-to-day business and decision making, could make it impossible for us to operate critical equipment, and could have a materially adverse effect on our performance, if our disaster recovery plans do not mitigate the disruption. Disruptions could be caused by a variety of factors, such as catastrophic events or weather, power outages, or cyber-attacks on our systems by outside parties. 17 Table of Contents Immigration legislation and enforcement may affect our ability to hire hourly workers. Immigration reform continues to attract significant attention in the public arena and the United States Congress. If new immigration legislation is enacted at the federal level or in states in which we do business, such legislation may contain provisions that could make it more difficult or costly for us to hire United States citizens and/or legal immigrant workers. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business or may have to change the way we conduct our operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Also, despite our past and continuing efforts to hire only United States citizens and/or persons legally authorized to work in the United States, increased enforcement efforts with respect to existing immigration laws by governmental authorities may disrupt a portion of our workforce or our operations at one or more of our facilities, thereby negatively impacting our business. Officials with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement have informally indicated an intent to focus their enforcement efforts on red meat and poultry processors. If our poultry products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. Poultry products may contain disease-producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E. coli. These pathogens are generally found in the environment and, as a result, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our processed poultry products. These pathogens can also be introduced as a result of improper handling by our customers, consumers or third parties after we have shipped the products. We control these risks through careful processing and testing of our finished product, but we cannot entirely eliminate them. We have little, if any, control over proper handling once the product has been shipped. Nevertheless, contamination that results from improper handling by our customers, consumers or third parties, or tampering with our products by those persons, may be blamed on us. Any publicity regarding product contamination or resulting illness or death could adversely affect us even if we did not cause the contamination and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and future prospects. We could be required to recall our products if they are contaminated or damaged and product liability claims could be asserted against us. We are exposed to risks relating to product liability, product recalls, property damage and injuries to persons, for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate. Our business operations entail a number of risks, including risks relating to product liability claims, product recalls, property damage and injuries to persons. We currently maintain insurance with respect to certain of these risks, including product liability and recall insurance, property insurance, workers compensation insurance and general liability insurance, but in many cases such insurance is expensive and difficult to obtain. We cannot assure you that we can maintain on reasonable terms sufficient coverage to protect us against losses due to any of these events. We would be adversely affected if we expand our business by acquiring other businesses or by building new processing plants, but fail to successfully integrate the acquired business or run a new plant efficiently. We regularly evaluate expansion opportunities such as acquiring other businesses or building new processing plants. Significant expansion involves risks such as additional debt, integrating the acquired business or new plant into our operations, attracting and retaining growers, and identifying customers for the additional product we generate. In evaluating expansion opportunities, we carefully consider the effect that financing the opportunity will have on our financial condition. Successful expansion depends on our ability to integrate the acquired business or efficiently run the new plant. If we are unable to do this, expansion could adversely affect our operations, financial results and prospects. Governmental regulation is a constant factor affecting our business. The poultry industry is subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of food products. Unknown 18 Table of Contents matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations may materially affect our business or operations in the future. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. On December 9, 2011, the United States Department of Agriculture, Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyard Administration, or GIPSA, published new and amending regulations under the Packers and Stockyard Act, or PSA, which apply to all stages of a live poultry dealer’s poultry grow-out, including the pullet, breeder and broiler stages. The new regulations took effect on February 7, 2012. Among other things, the new regulations purport to extend the jurisdiction of GIPSA under the PSA to cover a poultry dealer’s relationship with its pullet and breeder growers rather than simply broiler growers, as has been the case since the adoption of the PSA of 1921. The new regulations impose certain notice requirements when a poultry company determines to suspend the delivery of birds to a grower, impose requirements regarding additional capital investment by growers, impose new requirements of a poultry company when a grower has breached its agreement with the processor, and impose new rules applicable to grower contracts that provide for arbitration to resolve disputes between a grower and the poultry company. The Company amended its grower agreements in 2012 to comply with the new rules. It is uncertain how GIPSA will interpret the new rules and whether the new rules signal a change in the manner in which GIPSA will exercise its jurisdiction over poultry growing agreements. The removal of federal meat and poultry inspectors from our plants due to federal government budget constraints, or any other reason, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The Poultry Products Inspection Act prohibits the production, processing or interstate distribution of poultry meat without federal inspection. To implement this law, the United States Department of Agriculture (or USDA) stations inspectors at our poultry processing plants to observe our operations. The Budget Control Act of 2011 mandates mandatory cuts in the budgets of many governmental agencies in the United States. Such cuts, commonly referred to as “sequestration,” took effect on March 1, 2013. In a letter dated February 12, 2013, Thomas J. Vilsack, the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, indicated that while furloughing food safety inspectors is the “last option” the USDA would implement to achieve necessary sequestration cuts, such action may be necessary in order to comply with the mandates of the Budget Control Act of 2011. Because applicable law would prohibit us from operating our poultry processing plants without the presence of federal inspectors, we would have to shut down our processing plants and our live chickens would continue to mature, possibly reaching weights that exceed the market standards demanded by our customers. In addition, live chickens would likely experience significantly higher mortality due to the higher live weights. Our inability to process chickens at our poultry processing plants for an extended period of time would materially disrupt our operations and our ability to deliver our product. To date, funding for meat inspectors has been provided at levels adequate to allow uninterrupted operations. However, if funding for the USDA inspection program is not maintained, we could experience the material adverse effects described above. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, many of which are beyond our control: • market cyclicality and fluctuations in the price of feed grains and chicken products, as described above; • quarterly variations in our operating results, or results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; 19 Table of Contents • changes in investor perceptions of the poultry industry in general, including our competitors; and • general economic and competitive conditions. In addition, purchases or sales of large quantities of our stock could have an unusual effect on our market price. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws, as well as certain provisions of Mississippi law, may make it difficult for anyone to acquire us without approval of our board of directors. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may discourage attempts to acquire control of our company without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions, among others, include a classified board of directors, advance notification requirements for stockholders to nominate persons for election to the board and to make stockholder proposals, and special stockholder voting requirements. These measures, and any others we may adopt in the future, as well as applicable provisions of Mississippi law, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our board of directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even offers that are at a substantial premium to the market price of our stock. Our stockholders may therefore be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control of our company, and as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock. Weak national or global economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by weak national or global economic conditions, including inflation, unfavorable currency exchange rates and interest rates, the lack of availability of credit on reasonable terms, changes in consumer spending rates and habits, unemployment and underemployment, and a tight energy supply and rising energy costs. Our business could be negatively impacted if efforts and initiatives of the governments of the United States and other countries to manage and stimulate the economy fail or result in worsening economic conditions. Deteriorating economic conditions could negatively impact consumer demand for protein generally or our products specifically, consumers’ ability to afford our products, or consumer habits with respect to how they spend their food dollars. Disruptions in credit and other financial markets caused by deteriorating national and international economic conditions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us, our customers or our growers or prospective growers to obtain financing and credit on reasonable terms, cause lenders to change their practice with respect to the industry generally or our company specifically in terms of granting credit extensions and terms, impair the financial condition of our customers, suppliers or growers making it difficult for them to meet their obligations and supply raw material, or impair the financial condition of our insurers, making it difficult or impossible for them to meet their obligations to us. The construction and potential benefits of our new facilities are subject to risks and uncertainties. In August 2009, we began construction of a poultry complex in Kinston, North Carolina. The Kinston, North Carolina, complex began initial operations during January 2011 and was at near full capacity in March 2012. In March 2010 we announced plans for a second potential new poultry complex in North Carolina, subject to various contingencies, including our obtaining an acceptable economic incentive package from the State of North Carolina and the local government. On February 24, 2011 we placed this second North Carolina complex on hold until market fundamentals improve, including the global supply and price of feed grains. In August 2012, we announced the selection of Nash County, North Carolina, as the site for the new complex, subject to various contingencies. On November 13, 2012, we announced that Nash County, North Carolina, would not be the site for the new complex due to various timing issues, but that we were actively seeking alternative sites. On February 14, 2013, we announced the selection of sites in and near Palestine, Texas for the construction of the new poultry complex, and construction began on or about October 1, 2013. Our ability to complete its construction on a timely basis and within budget is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties described below. In addition, the new complex may not generate the benefits we expect if demand for the products to be produced by them is different from what we expect. 20 Table of Contents In order to complete construction of the new facility, we will need to take a significant number of steps and obtain a number of approvals, none of which we can assure you will be obtained. In particular we need to: • identify and enter into contracts with a sufficient number of growers for the new complex; and • complete construction. If we are unable to proceed with or complete construction as planned, attract growers, find customers for the additional product generated by the complex, run the complex efficiently, or otherwise achieve the expected benefits of our new facilities, our business could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete such steps on a timely basis, or at all, or on terms that are reasonable or consistent with our expectations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 