ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, expect future losses and cannot assure you that we will become profitable and generate sufficient cash from operations. Historically, we have incurred significant losses and have had negative cash flows from our operations. To date, we have dedicated most of our financial resources to selling, general and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $58,418,330. Our future success depends significantly upon continued expansion of adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System and our ability to obtain financing. Although the sale of products used in our Safety-Sponge® System generates revenues, those revenues are presently insufficient to generate consistent, positive cash flows from our operations. In addition, as we work to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, because of how our sales cycle works (see “Business—Customers and Distribution”) we expect that our cash needs will increase before we begin to generate cash from such efforts. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had revenues of $4,503,535 and $2,779,871, respectively. If we are not successful in generating sufficient revenues from sales of products used in our Safety-Sponge® System and we are unable to obtain sufficient capital to fund our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity to allow us to continue to operate our business or prevent the possible impairment of our assets. If this were to occur, you might lose all or part of your investment in our company. Our auditors’ opinion includes a going concern explanatory paragraph, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and our ability to obtain financing. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm dated March 31, 2010 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 includes a going concern explanatory paragraph, which states that our significant operating losses and working capital deficit cause substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock and adversely impact our ability to obtain financing. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, you might lose all or part or your investment. We need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Because revenues from sales of products used in our Safety-Sponge® System are presently insufficient to generate consistent, positive cash flows from our operations, we have historically financed our activities through additional cash proceeds from the private placement of debt and equity securities. We believe that our existing working capital and expected future cash flows from operating activities will only be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements into the second quarter of 2010. Accordingly, we will need to raise additional capital. 9 If additional debt financing is raised in the future, we may be required to grant lenders a security interest in all or a portion of our assets and issue warrants to acquire our equity securities, resulting in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any such debt financing may involve restrictive covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or assign intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If additional equity financing is raised in the future, it will dilute your current investment in our company. Future additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity to allow us to continue to operate our business, or prevent the possible impairment of our assets. If this were to occur, you might lose all or part of your investment in our company. Growth of our business is critical to our success. However, failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. We need to grow our business and expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System to succeed. However, any growth in our operations will place a significant strain on our existing resources and increase demands on our management, our operational and administrative systems and controls. In addition, because of how our sales cycle works (see “Business—Customers and Distribution”), any growth in our customer base will require the investment of a significant amount of resources prior to generating any cash from such customers. There can be no assurance that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls or available financial resources will be adequate to support our operations in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. We need to implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. We will also need to continue to attract, retain and integrate additional personnel in all aspects of our operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to effectively integrate them into our existing organization. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant costs to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of this internal control over financial reporting. Based on the current Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC rules, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm perform an audit and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and subsequent years. We expect to incur significant costs to comply with this requirement. In connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting included in our Form 10-K for the periods ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Even if we are successful in remedying these material weaknesses, we may in the future discover other areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. There can be no assurance that the recent remedial measures we implemented to address prior and current material weaknesses will result in adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to implement our improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the future, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, or if our auditors are unable to provide an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting when required by applicable rules and regulations of the SEC, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities and negatively affect our efforts to obtain necessary financing. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Cost containment measures implemented by hospitals could adversely affect our ability to successfully market our Safety-Sponge® System, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The economic downturn in the United States at the end of 2008 has increased the focus of many of our current and potential customers on implementing cost containment measures. Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare providers and insurers could negatively affect our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, which would have a have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 10 The effects of general healthcare reform on our industry are uncertain, and there is a risk that it could adversely affect our ability to market our Safety-Sponge® System, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. General healthcare reform is the subject of ongoing debate in the United States. There is uncertainty regarding the legislation recently signed into law and how it will affect our industry and our business prospects. We cannot predict the effect such healthcare reform legislation might have on demand for our Safety-Sponge® System. If such healthcare reform has a negative effect on our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, it would have a have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The volatility of our stock price can have a material adverse effect on our reported profit or loss. At December 31, 2009, we had a warrant derivative liability of $3,666,336, which represented just over 22% of our current liabilities at such date. Under applicable accounting rules, we are required to “mark to market” this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value associated with this liability in our consolidated statement of operations (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Warrant Derivative Liability”). As such, when our stock price increases, the fair value of this liability increases, and we recognize an expense associated with this change. Similarly, when our stock price decreases, the fair value of this liability decreases, and we recognize a gain associated with this change in fair value. As such, the volatility of our stock price (which ranged from a high of $2.25 to a low of $0.47 in the year ended December 31, 2009) has a direct impact on our reported profit or loss. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. As of December 31, 2009, we had goodwill of $1,832,027 and other intangible assets of $3,114,025 (or 15.9% and 27.0%, respectively of our total assets). We are required to test goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for impairment on an annual, or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies” below). If circumstances change such that we are required to take an impairment charge, the amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant. If so, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have limited marketing experience, and our failure to build and manage our sales force or to market our products effectively would negatively affect our ability to implement our growth strategy. Currently, we do not have an in-house marketing team, nor have we retained a third party to perform the function. If we do not build an in-house marketing capability or hire a third party provider, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. While we currently employee a seven person sales team, no assurance can be given that we will be able to hire additional qualified sales personnel with the necessary skills and experience to sell and market our Safety-Sponge® System effectively. Even if we are able to hire well qualified sales personnel, if we do not provide adequate training in the use and benefits of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As all sales personnel are employees at will, no assurance can be given that some or all of them will not seek employment on better terms for themselves elsewhere or, in such event, that we will be able to retain additional sales personnel with appropriate skills and experience. Our failure to retain our current sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 No assurance can be given that any particular marketing program which we may adopt or acquire, itself, will be effective in building sales. If we are unable to develop or acquire an effective marketing program, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any failure in our customer education efforts could negatively affect our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System. It is important to the success of our sales efforts that our clinical support staff properly educates operating room nurses in the techniques of using our Safety-Sponge® System. Such training is a key component of our sales process (see “Business—Sales and Clinical Support” above). Positive results using our Safety-Sponge® System are highly dependent upon proper technique. If our Safety-Sponge® System is used suboptimally or improperly, such use may contribute to unsatisfactory patient outcomes or fail to prevent an RFO event. This could give rise to negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation as a medical device company, and on our financial condition or results of operations. Our reliance on third parties for the supply and distribution of, and on proper training of hospital personnel in the use of, the surgical sponge and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System exposes us to risk of lack of quality control, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our reputation as a medical device company, and on our financial condition or results of operations. Our Safety-Sponge® System is highly dependent on proper technique, including the proper handling and use of the surgical sponge and towel products used therein. There are a number of third parties that handle such products in our supply and distribution chain, as well as at the hospitals who have adopted our system, over which and whom we have no control. Although we have put in place contractual arrangements to ensure quality control in the supply and distribution chain, and although we engage in extensive training and provide clinical support to ensure proper technique and use at our hospital customers, we cannot guarantee that such third parties will not mishandle or misuse the surgical sponge and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System. Because we are not directly involved in the supply and distribution chain, we might not be aware of quality control issues that arise. Moreover, we might not be aware of improper handling techniques at our hospital customers. If such quality control issues arise and we are not able to promptly remedy them, it could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We rely on a sole supplier for manufacture of the surgical sponges and towels used in our Safety-Sponge® System. We have an exclusive supply arrangement with A Plus for the manufacture of the surgical sponge and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System (see “Business—Manufacturing” above). While our relationship with A Plus is on good terms, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our relationship with A Plus or that A Plus will be able to manufacture an adequate supply of our products. While we believe that we could find alternative suppliers, in the event that A Plus fails to meet our needs, a change in suppliers or any significant delay in our ability to have access to product for resale would have a material adverse effect on our delivery schedules, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a number of third parties in the execution of our business plan. If such third parties do not perform as agreed, it could harm our reputation and disrupt our business, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a number of third parties in the execution of our business plan. For example, we use third party developers to maintain and improve the technological elements of our Safety-Sponge® System; we have an exclusive manufacturing arrangement with A Plus (see above) and have an exclusive distribution arrangement with Cardinal Health for the distribution of products used in our Safety-Sponge® System (see “Business—Customers and Distribution—Cardinal Health – Exclusive U.S. Distributor” above). Although we believe that our relationships with these third-parties are good, if such third parties fail to honor their contract obligations, it could lead to disruptions in our business while we negotiate replacement agreements and find other suppliers or distributors for our products. In addition, there is no guarantee that we would be able to negotiate a distribution agreement with a contract party comparable to Cardinal Health, or be able to obtain comparable contract provisions in terms of pricing and quality control. These disruptions, or inability to effectively distribute our products, could harm our reputation and customer relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. In particular, our success depends in part upon the continued service and performance of: Steven H. Kane, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Marc L. Rose, our Chief Financial Officer. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Kane, and Mr. Rose, the loss of the services of one or both of these executive officers could adversely affect our ability to implement our growth strategy. The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. In addition, we do not have key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We have experienced turnover in our chief executive officer position and if we continue with frequent executive turnover we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. In January 2007, Milton “Todd” Ault, III resigned as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, and our Board of Directors appointed William B. Horne as Chief Executive Officer. In April 2008, our Board of Directors appointed William Adams, as our President and Chief Executive Officer. In January 2009, Mr. Adams resigned, and our Board of Directors appointed David I. Bruce as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bruce resigned in May 2009 and our Board of Directors appointed Steven H. Kane as our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we are not able to attain stability of our Chief Executive Officer position, we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. Risks Related to Our Industry Our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us, and our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect these rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and defend our patents protecting the technology in our proprietary Safety-Sponge® System. However, we cannot guarantee that the technologies and processes covered by our patents will not be found to be obvious or substantially similar to prior work, which could render these patents unenforceable. If we are not able to successfully protect and defend our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time-consuming and expensive, and if we are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We cannot be sure that the products and technologies used in our business do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject in the ordinary course of our business to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property or derivative rights of others. Any legal action against us claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products or our methods or processes could: · require us, or our collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected products, methods or processes, and such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · prevent us from making, using or selling the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject us to potential liability for damages; 13 · consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources; or · result in litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly or not covered by our insurance policies, whether we win or lose. If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights outside the United States. Intellectual property law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries is currently undergoing review and revision. The laws of some countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. The intellectual property rights we enjoy in one country or jurisdiction may be rejected in other countries or jurisdictions, or, if recognized there, the rights may be significantly diluted. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign intellectual property rights, or those of our competitors, which could result in substantial cost and divert our resources, efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. If we are unable to defend our intellectual property rights internationally, we may face increased competition outside the United States, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to respond to rapid changes in technology and its applications and intense competition in the medical devices industry could make our system obsolete. The medical devices industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. To be successful, we must respond to new developments in technology and new applications of our existing technology. Our limited resources may limit our ability to innovate and respond to such developments. In addition, we compete against several companies offering alternative systems, some of which could have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than us. If our products fail to compete favorably against competing products, or if we fail to be responsive on a timely and effective basis to competitors’ new devices, applications, or price strategies, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, among others, which may not be covered by insurance. The nature of our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the design, manufacture and distribution of medical products and systems, as well as the clinical use, manufacturing, marketing and use of our Safety-Sponge® System. Although we maintain liability insurance, insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all risks and continuing insurance coverage may not be available at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, we are exposed to the risks under our indemnification program if our Safety-Sponge® System is used properly but does not prevent an RFO. If we are required to indemnify customers for a significant number of events, our insurance may not cover the entire cost. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims or a high number of indemnifiable RFO events may result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured or are required to indemnify a significant number of customers, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and we need FDA clearances and approval to distribute and market our products. Our Safety-Sponge® System is considered a medical device and is subject to extensive regulation. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all material applicable regulations, current regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and other third party regulatory groups, as is our exclusive manufacturer, A Plus. Future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, with possible retroactive effect, may vary from current interpretations and may adversely affect our business. 14 Laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations of regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject us to enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, product seizures, injunctions, recalls, possible withdrawal of product clearances, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, and of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Investments We have an investment in non-marketable investment securities, which may subject us to significant impairment charges. We have investments in illiquid non-marketable equity securities acquired in private transactions as a result of our legacy business (see “Business—Organizational History” above and Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K). At December 31, 2009, 5.8% of our consolidated assets were comprised of investment securities, which are illiquid investments. Investments in illiquid, or non-marketable, securities are inherently risky and difficult to value. We account for our investments in non-marketable investment securities on a cost basis. We review our investment in non-marketable securities on a quarterly basis for indicators of impairment, however, for non-marketable equity securities; the impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Because a significant amount of our assets are comprised of non-marketable investment securities, any future impairment charges from the write down in value of these securities will most likely have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock could drop significantly. In the year ended December 31, 2009, our stock price ranged from a high of $2.25 to a low of $0.47 per share. Stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. Our stock price volatility is attributable, in part, to our very low average daily trading volumes. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price and our future capital-raising activities could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our management team and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ system, or our former trading market, the American Stock Exchange. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Because of the limited trading market for our common stock, and because of the significant price volatility, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock when you desire to do so. In the year ended December 31, 2009, our stock price ranged from a high of $2.25 to a low of $0.47 per share. The inability to sell your shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase your risk of loss as a result of such illiquidity and because the price for our common stock may suffer greater declines due to its price volatility. 15 We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility, and the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock, may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Common stockholders may not be able to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock provide that if at any time dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be unpaid in an amount equal to two full years’ dividends, until such time as all dividends in arrears have been paid, such holders shall have the right to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. If we are not able to obtain financing, we may not be able continue to pay dividends on our preferred stock. If this were to occur, holders of our common stock would lose their ability to control our Board of Directors as the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock would have the right to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our stock. SEC regulations generally define “penny stocks” as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of March 29, 2010, the last sale price for our common stock was $1.04 per share. For transactions in securities that are not exempt from the “penny stock” definition, the SEC has adopted rules and regulations that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. Because our shares are subject to these rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be impossible to accurately price an investment in our shares. In addition, the SEC has the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the penny stock rules described above, the FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. 16 Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: · authorizing our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66⅔% stockholder approval; and · requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 