ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, expect future losses and cannot assure you that we will remain consistently profitable or generate consistent positive cash from operations. Historically, the Company has incurred significant losses and has had negative cash flows from our operations. While we saw a significant improvement in the business results during the second half of 2010, as of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $56.6 million because of losses generated throughout the Company’s history. While the Company generated its first reported operating profit since the Company’s ownership of SurgiCount Medical in the third quarter of 2010, continued improved results at this level or better depends on continued customer acceptance and sales growth of our Safety-Sponge® System, managing our expenses in relative proportion to gross profits generated, and having the ability to raise capital to support our growth and future investment in technology development. In addition, as we work to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, because of how our sales cycle works (see “Business - Customers and Distribution”), our cash outlays typically increase before we begin to generate cash from selling to new customers. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had revenues of $14.8 million and $4.5 million respectively. 2010 reported revenues included $8.9 million of Forward Order related sales to Cardinal Health, our exclusive distributor, in accordance with the terms of our exclusive distributor arrangement (see “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Future Results—Cardinal Health Supply Agreement”). If we are not successful in generating sufficient growth in revenues from sales of products used in our Safety-Sponge® System or we are unable to obtain sufficient capital to fund our efforts to further develop our technology and expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity to allow us to continue to operate our business or prevent the possible impairment of our assets. If this were to occur, investors could be at risk of losing all or part of their investment in our company. We may need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms or not available at all. While results achieved during the second half of 2010 suggests that our current level of revenues from the sales of products used in our Safety-Sponge® System may be sufficient to generate cash flow from operations, we have historically had to finance our negative cash flow from operating activities through additional cash proceeds from the sale of debt and equity securities. We believe that our existing liquidity, which includes $7.1 million of proceeds at the closing of a private placement on March 29 and 30, 2011 (see Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K), along with our expected future cash flows from operations during 2011, are expected to be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements through at least the next 12 months. However, if projected cash flows from operations are not achieved as planned, or if capital requirements needed to expand our business exceed available cash balances, additional debt or equity financing may be required. At present we do not have any bank credit, and have historically relied upon selling equity to investors to raise cash. If additional debt or equity financing were to be raised in the future, it could require us to grant lenders a security interest in all or a portion of our assets and or to issue warrants to acquire our equity securities, resulting in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any such debt financing could involve restrictive covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or assign intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If additional equity financing is raised in the future, it would dilute our current shareholder’s holdings in our company. Future additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liquidity to allow us to continue to operate our business, or prevent the possible impairment of our assets. If this were to occur, investors could lose all or part of their investment in our company. 9 Growth of our business is critical to our success. However, failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. We need to grow our business and expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System to succeed. However, substantial growth in our operations will place a significant strain on our existing resources available (including cash) and increase demands on our management, our operational and administrative systems and controls. In addition, because of how our sales cycle typically works (see “Business - Customers and Distribution”), any growth in our customer base typically requires the investment of a significant amount of cash and resources prior to generating any cash from such customers. There can be no assurance that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls or available financial resources will be adequate to support our growth in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. While we have made significant progress during the last six months, we need to continually implement and maintain our operational and financial systems, policies, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. We will also need to continue to attract, retain and integrate qualified personnel in all areas of our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to successfully integrate changes into our existing operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cardinal Health’s right to use any excess inventory it holds to partially meet customer demand beginning in January of 2012 could have a material negative impact to our revenues and cash flows. In March 2011, management and Cardinal Health signed an amendment to the Cardinal Health Supply and Distribution agreement (the “Amended Supply and Distribution Agreement”). The Amended Supply and Distribution Agreement amended a number of terms and conditions of the previous agreement, including but not limited to extending the termination date of the agreement from November 19, 2014 to December 31, 2015 and adding certain terms and provisions regarding target inventory levels and excess inventory of our products held by Cardinal Health. Until December 31, 2011, Cardinal Health is required to maintain any inventory in excess of such target inventory levels, including inventory from the Forward Order. Additionally, we were granted the right to buy back any such excess inventory from Cardinal Health at any time. Cardinal Health has agreed to not sell any of the Forward Order inventory until calendar year 2012, and we have agreed to a methodology for how Cardinal Health will sell this inventory to our customers, so there is an orderly release throughout the 2012 year that more reasonably minimizes its impact to the Company’s sales during 2012. The methodology sets a formula which limits the use of any excess inventory used in a particular month over a 12 month time period. Should Cardinal Health have any excess inventory on January 1, 2012 and begins selling the excess inventory it holds to partially meet customer demand, our reported revenues and cash flows will be negatively affected. The magnitude this negative impact could have on our 2012 revenue will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to how much excess inventory Cardinal Health actually has on hand in 2012, whether the Company chooses to purchase some or all of this excess inventory, and what our actual sales growth rates are during 2011 and 2012. Actual sales during 2011 and 2012 will depend on a number of factors including but not limited to actual end-user demand and Cardinal Health’s estimates of what inventory levels it needs to meet that demand. Management has no immediate plans to repurchase Cardinal Health’s excess inventory, however we will consider this option should an appropriate opportunity arise. While we have not provided any estimates of what we expect 2011 or 2012 sales growth to be, in order to prevent a significant negative impact to 2012 revenue and cash flow, (i) the Company would need to experience substantial growth in the number of hospitals using its products during 2011 and 2012, (ii) the Company would need to buyback any excess inventory from Cardinal Health or (iii) Cardinal Health would need to decide not to use its excess inventory to partially meet customer demand. If the Company were to buyback excess inventory from Cardinal, it could have a significant negative impact to earnings, financial position and our liquidity. Revenues are subject to significant variation due to Cardinal Health’s ordering patterns, and expectations of the size and timing of new customer hospital implementations. Our exclusive distribution agreement with Cardinal Health results in all of our current revenues coming from orders placed by Cardinal Health. Cardinal Health has discretion in the timing and quantities with the orders they place, subject only to the limits contained in our agreements with them. As a result, our revenues may not necessarily correlate with the actual growth of our underlying customer base. In addition, our revenue can be materially impacted by the size of new customer hospital systems being implemented and the expected timing of those implementations by us and our distribution partners. Size of hospital systems connotes the number of actual hospitals that are a part of the hospital system and the number of surgical procedures that are performed at each hospital. Implementations with our large hospital system customers like the Mayo Clinic in Rochester or the Cleveland Clinic in 2009 had a material impact on our reported revenue and revenue growth for the year 2009. The timing of when these larger hospital system implementations are expected to occur also have a significant impact on our annual reported revenue, as both we and our distribution partners need to ensure adequate inventory on hand to accommodate them. The decision process that our distribution partner Cardinal Health uses in determining when to place orders is complex and subject to significant judgment. If those judgments prove incorrect, our revenues may be materially adversely impacted. For example, some of the factors that go into these judgments include, but are not limited to: (i) the size of some new pending and possible customers, (ii) the distribution agreements new pending and possible hospital customers have with their distribution partners, (iii) the multiple formats our products need to be available in (Single Sterile and Bulk Non Sterile), and (iv) the location of the manufacturing facilities of our China based manufacturing partner and the lead times needed in manufacturing our products. Although growth in the number of hospitals is a relevant general indicator of growth in our business and customer acceptance of our products, it is not necessarily proportional to revenue because of the factors that impact revenue growth, including the number of actual customers represented by the hospitals using our products, the number of procedures such hospitals actually perform, the timing of orders of our products and the other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Cost containment measures implemented by hospitals could adversely affect our ability to successfully market our Safety-Sponge® System, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The economic downturn in the U.S. during the last few has increased the focus of many of our current and potential customers on implementing cost containment measures. Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare providers could negatively affect our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, which would have a have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Global financial conditions may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and or liquidity. Continued or further deterioration or volatility in general economic and financial market conditions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the impact of these volatile and negative conditions may include decreased demand for our products and services, decreased ability to accurately forecast future product trends and demand, a negative impact on our ability to timely collect receivables from our customers, a negative impact on our sole supplier’s ability to provide us with product inventory, and a negative impact on our access to the capital markets. The volatility of our stock price can have a material adverse effect on our reported profit or loss due to operation of applicable accounting rules. At December 31, 2010, we had a warrant derivative liability recorded on our consolidated balance sheet with an estimated fair value of $992 thousand. Under applicable accounting rules, we are required to “mark to market” this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value associated with this liability in our consolidated statement of operations (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Warrant Derivative Liability”). As such, when our stock price increases, the fair value of this liability increases, and we recognize an expense associated with this change in fair value. Similarly, when our stock price decreases, the fair value of this liability decreases, and we recognize a gain associated with this change in fair value. As such, though there is no cash flow impact to us caused by the volatility of our stock price (which ranged from a high of $1.90 to a low of $0.45 in the year ended December 31, 2010) applicable accounting rules have a direct impact on our reported profit or loss as per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Although we do not manufacture the products for our Safety-Sponge® System, if one of our products proves to be defective or is misused by a health care practitioner, we may be subject to potential product liability risks, among others, which may not be covered by insurance, and could adversely affect our reputation, profitability and liquidity. Although we do not manufacture the sponges, towels and scanner equipment used in our Safety-Sponge® System, a defect in the design or manufacture of our sponges, towels or scanner equipment could have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and subject us to claims of liability for injuries and otherwise. Misuse of our products by a practitioner that results in an injury could subject us to liability. The nature of our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the design, manufacture and distribution of medical products and systems, as well as the clinical use, manufacturing, marketing and use of our Safety-Sponge® System. Even though the Company carries what management believes to be adequate product liability insurance coverage, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all risks and continuing insurance coverage may not continue to be available at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, we are exposed to the risks under our indemnification program, where if our Safety-Sponge® System is used properly but does not prevent the unintentional retention of one of our surgical sponges or towels. If we are required to indemnify customers for a significant number of events, our insurance may not cover the entire cost. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims or a high number of indemnifiable events could result in decreased demand for our products, injury to our reputation and loss of revenues. A substantial underinsured loss or product recall could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, any impairment of our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and prospects for future business. Our future reported financial results could be adversely impacted by impairments or other charges to our intangible assets. As of December 31, 2010, we had goodwill of $1.8 million and other intangible assets of $2.8 million (or 18.8% and 28.6%, respectively of our total assets at year end). We are required to test goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether there has been any impairment on an annual, or an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that may result in reducing the carrying value of our goodwill or our intangible assets (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies” below). If circumstances change such that we are required to take an impairment charge, the amount of such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have limited sales and marketing experience and in-house resources, and our failure to build and manage our sales efforts, or failure to market our products effectively would negatively affect our ability to grow our revenues and implement our growth strategy. We currently have limited sales and marketing resources and experience in-house. We rely on a number of outside consultants and our distribution partners to complement our full-time employees who focus on these areas. If we do not select and work with our outside consultants effectively, or our distribution partners fail to provide adequate sales and marketing support, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, no assurance can be given that we will be able hire additional sales or marketing personnel, or outside consultants, with the necessary skill and experience, or that we will be able to train such individuals properly, any of which could have a material adverse event on our growth, financial condition and results of operations. As all sales personnel are employees at will, no assurance can be given that some or all of them will not seek employment on better terms for themselves elsewhere or, in such event, that we will be able to retain replacement sales personnel with appropriate skills and experience. Our failure to retain our current sales personnel could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. If competitors become well capitalized, or we are not able to offer and/or supply our solution to customers, our market growth could be negatively impacted. The market place in which we compete in has many smaller competitors that we do not consider to be a significant threat to our market growth because we believe that those companies are not well capitalized. Should one or more of these competitors become well capitalized or should our estimates of their capitalization prove incorrect, we could experience significant competition in our market place. We also believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their hospital distributors, and to the extent we are not able to offer and/or supply our patented solution to eliminate retained surgical sponges and towels, customers may elect to buy the different solutions available from our competitors. These factors could cause our competitive position to suffer which could have a material adverse effect on our pricing, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. 11 The company has significant related party transactions with its exclusive manufacturer, A Plus. Wayne Lin, A Plus’ founder and significant shareholder is also a significant shareholder and a member of the board of directors of the Company. There are risks that having significant related party transactions may result in not having terms that are arm’s length or unfair to the company, even though we have company policy over related party transactions that requires the involvement of our executive team and board of directors to review and approve such related party transactions on an ongoing basis. From time to time we have engaged into transactions with related parties, including the purchase from or sale to of products and services from related parties, where these related parties were paid in cash and or company stock. We have policies and procedures in place that require the pre-approval of related party transactions, including loans with any related parties. Notwithstanding these policies, we cannot assure that in every historical instance that the terms of the transactions with past related parties were on terms as fair as we might have received from or extended to third parties. Related party transactions in general have a higher potential for conflicts of interest than independent third-party transactions, and having related party transactions could result in potential significant losses to our company and could impair investor confidence, adversely affecting our business reputation and our stock price. Any failure in our customer education and training efforts could negatively affect our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System and our financial condition and results of operations. It is important to the success of our sales efforts that our clinical support staff properly educates operating room nurses and staff in the techniques of using our Safety-Sponge® System. Such training and education is a key component of our sales process (see “Business—Sales and Clinical Support” above). Positive results using our Safety-Sponge® System are highly dependent upon proper training and education. If our Safety-Sponge® System is used sub-optimally or improperly, such use may contribute to unsatisfactory patient outcomes or failure to prevent one of our products from being unintentionally retained inside a patient. This could give rise to negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation as a medical device company, and on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on third parties for the supply and distribution of, and on proper training of hospital personnel in the use of, the surgical sponge and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System exposes us to risk of lack of quality control, which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our reputation as a medical device company, and on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Safety-Sponge® System is dependent on proper technique, including the proper handling and use of the scanner device, surgical sponges and towel products used therein. There are a number of third parties that handle such products in our supply and distribution chain, as well as at the hospitals who have adopted our system, over which and whom we have no control. Although we have put in place contractual arrangements to ensure quality control in the supply and distribution chain, and although we engage in extensive training and provide clinical support to ensure proper technique and use or our products by our hospital customers, we cannot guarantee that such third parties will not mishandle or misuse the scanner, surgical sponges and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System. Because we are not directly involved in the supply and distribution of our products (see “Business– Customers and Distribution – Cardinal Health – Exclusive U.S. Distributor”), we may not be aware of quality control issues that arise with our customers. Moreover, we might not be aware of improper handling techniques at our hospital customers. If such quality control issues arise and we are not able to promptly remedy them, it could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on a sole supplier for manufacture of the surgical sponges and towels used in our Safety-Sponge® System. We have an exclusive supply arrangement with A Plus for the manufacture of the surgical sponge and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System (see “Business - Manufacturing” above). While we believe our relationship with A Plus is on good terms, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our relationship with A Plus or that A Plus will be able to continue manufacturing adequate supplies of our products in the future. In addition, A Plus is considered to be a related party of the Company, as described above. While we believe that we could find alternative suppliers, in the event that A Plus fails to meet our needs, a change in suppliers or any significant delay in our ability to supply products for resale would have a material adverse effect on our delivery schedules, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. A primary component of our disposable sponges and towels is cotton and those products are currently manufactured for us primarily in China. Accordingly, we are exposed to risks associated to the supply of cotton, the price of cotton and the Yuan/US Dollar currency exchange rates. Our exclusive supply agreement with A Plus for the manufacture of our surgical sponge and towel products allow for annual cost increases if there are significant increases in a certain cotton index, or significant changes in the Yuan/Dollar exchange rate. Cotton prices have increased significantly this last twelve months, and we have received a reasonable cost increase in 2011 as a result. However if there continues to be significant price increases for cotton, and or significant changes in the Yuan exchange rates, this could have a material impact on our product cost, causing potentially a negative impact on our revenue should we raise prices accordingly, and or a negative impact on our results of operations from lower profitability. Additionally with A plus operating out of the People’s Republic of China we cannot assure that the Chinese government will not alter its policies to further restrict foreign participation in businesses operating in China, further there is no assurance that the Chinese government will continue to pursue the current economic reform policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice and the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain. We rely on a number of third parties in the execution of our business plan. If such third parties do not perform as agreed, or relations with such third parties are not good, it could harm our reputation and disrupt our business, which could have a material and adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a number of third parties in the execution of our business plan. Examples include contracting for nurses to support clinical trials and new customer implementations, technology experts to assist the software maintenance and development of our software applications, and various consultants to support our marketing, accounting and other functions. We also have an exclusive manufacturing arrangement with A Plus (see above) and have an exclusive distribution arrangement with Cardinal Health for the distribution of disposable sponge and towel products used in our Safety-Sponge® System (see “Business - Customers and Distribution - Cardinal Health - Exclusive U.S. Distributor” above). Although we believe that our relationships with all of the third-parties we work with are good, if such third parties fail to honor their contract obligations or the relationships deteriorate, it could lead to disruptions in our business while we negotiate replacement agreements and find other suppliers or distributors for our products. In addition, there is no guarantee that we would be able to negotiate a distribution agreement with a contract party comparable to Cardinal Health, or be able to obtain comparable contract provisions in terms of pricing and quality control. These disruptions, or inability to effectively distribute our products, could harm our reputation and customer relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to pursue opportunities for further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and or acquisitions. Future strategic alliances, joint ventures and or acquisitions may require significant resources and could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities to us. Over the next few years we intend to pursue opportunities for further expansion of our business through strategic alliances, joint ventures and or acquisitions. Any future strategic alliances, joint ventures and or acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable partners or acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for such transactions and obtain financing if necessary. We also could face competition for suitable acquisition candidates which may increase our costs. Acquisitions or other investments require significant management attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Any future acquisitions could also expose us to unanticipated liabilities. If we engage in strategic acquisitions, we may experience significant costs and difficult assimilating operations or personnel, which could impact our future growth. If we make any acquisitions, we could have difficulty assimilating operations, technologies and products, or integrating and retaining personnel of acquired companies. In addition, acquisitions may involve entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition, pursuing acquisition opportunities could divert our management’s attention from our ongoing business operations and result in decreased operating performance. Moreover, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition related costs or amortization of intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities in future acquisitions, with the issuance of equity securities diluting our existing stockholders. 12 We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the knowledge, skills experience of our executive team. In particular, our success depends in part upon the continued service and performance of: Brian E. Stewart, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and David C. Dreyer, our Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Stewart and Mr. Dreyer, the loss of the services of one or both of these executive officers would adversely affect our ability to implement our business and growth strategy. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. In addition, we do not have key-person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We have experienced historical turnover in our chief executive officer position and board of directors, and if we continue to have frequent executive turnover, we may have difficulty implementing our business plan and growth strategy. From January 2007 to the present, we have had six different Chief Executive Officers, and in June 2010, five of our directors resigned (see Item 1 “13D and Subsequent Restructuring”). Our history of management and director turnover, combined with the large losses reported by us under the leadership of our previous executives, may raise concern as to the stability of management and Board of Directors. Such instability has made it difficult to implement our business plan and strategy in the past, and any continued instability will affect our ability to implement our business plan and growth strategy in the future. Risks Related to Our Industry Our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us, and our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect these rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and defend our patents protecting the technology in our proprietary Safety-Sponge® System. However, we cannot guarantee that the technologies and processes covered by our patents will not be found to be obvious or substantially similar to prior work, which could render these patents unenforceable. If we are not able to successfully protect and defend our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be time-consuming and expensive, and if we are not successful, could cause substantial expenses and disrupt our business. We cannot be sure that the products and technologies used in our business do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject in the ordinary course of our business to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property or derivative rights of others. Any legal action against us claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products or our methods or processes could: · require us, or our collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected products, methods or processes, and such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · prevent us from making, using or selling the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject us to potential liability for damages; 13 · consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources; or · result in litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly or not covered by our insurance policies, whether we win or lose. If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights outside the United States. Intellectual property laws outside the United States are uncertain and in many countries are currently undergoing review and revision. While we do not sell our products outside the U.S. currently, it is a part of our growth strategy to expand into foreign markets. The laws of some countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. The intellectual property rights we enjoy in one country or jurisdiction may be rejected in other countries or jurisdictions, or, if recognized there, the rights may be significantly diluted. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign intellectual property rights, or those of our competitors, which could result in substantial cost and divert our resources, efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. If we are unable to defend our intellectual property rights internationally, it could limit our ability to execute a growth strategy to expand into foreign markets which could materially and adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and we need FDA clearances and approval to distribute and market our products. Our Safety-Sponge® System is considered a medical device and is subject to extensive regulation. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all material applicable regulations, current regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and other third party regulatory groups, as is our exclusive manufacturer, A Plus. Future interpretations made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, with possible retroactive effect, could vary from current interpretations and may adversely affect our business. 14 Laws and regulations regarding the design, development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations of regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations would subject us to enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, product seizures, injunctions, recalls, possible withdrawal of product clearances, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with applicable healthcare regulations that include the potential for substantial penalties, our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result. Certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patient’s rights may be applicable to our business and may have a negative impact on our business beyond our control, including subjecting us to burdensome compliance obligations. The laws that may affect our operations include: · The federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce (i) the referral of an individual, for an item or service, or (ii) the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; · The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPPA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or make false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and · State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claim laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payer, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ in significant ways from state to state and often are not preempted by HIPPA, thus complicating compliance efforts. Additionally, the compliance environment is changing, with more states, such as California and Massachusetts, mandating implementation of compliance programs, compliance with industry ethic codes, and spending limits, and other states, such as Vermont, Maine, Minnesota, requiring reporting to state government of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. Federal legislation, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act of 2009, has been proposed and is moving forward in Congress. This legislation would require disclosure to the federal government o payments to physicians. These laws all provide for penalties for non-compliance. The shifting regulatory environment, along with the requirement to comply with multiple jurisdictions with difference compliance and reporting requirements, increases the possibility that a company may unintentionally run afoul of one or more laws. If operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Recently adopted healthcare reform legislation may adversely affect our business. The U.S. healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. On March 23, 2010, healthcare reform legislation (the “Healthcare Legislation”) was approved by Congress and has been signed into law that seeks to, among other things, increase access to healthcare for the uninsured and control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy. This legislation has only recently been enacted and requires the adoption of implementing regulations, which may impact our business. Given the state of the new healthcare legislation, it’s far too early to evaluate its impact on our business and on our customers. Changes in regulations and healthcare policy occur frequently and may impact our results, growth potential and the profitability of products we sell. The Healthcare Legislation could result in changes to governmental reimbursement programs and possibly result in consolidating healthcare providers potentially reducing the number of available customers, both of which could have negative effects on our efforts to expand adoption of our Safety-Sponge® System, hurting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to respond to rapid changes in technology and its applications and intense competition in the medical devices industry could make our system obsolete. The medical devices industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. To be successful, we must respond to new developments in technology and new applications of our existing technology. Our limited resources may limit our ability to innovate and respond to such developments. In addition, we compete against several companies offering alternative systems, some of which have, or could obtain greater financial, marketing and technical resources than us. If our products fail to compete favorably against competing products, or if we fail to be responsive on a timely and effective basis to competitors’ new devices, applications, or price strategies, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is only minimally traded and could remain so for some time. Our stock price has been and is expected to continue to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock could drop significantly. In the year ended December 31, 2010, our stock price ranged from a high of $1.90 to a low of $0.45 per share. Stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility in recent years that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. Our stock price volatility is attributable, in part, to our very low average daily trading volumes. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price and our future capital-raising activities, and could involve the issuance of additional equity securities, which would dilute current shareholder investments in our common stock and could result in lowering the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our management team and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions and issue securities with rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock, and we may issue securities at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We have a significant number of outstanding warrants and options, and future sales of these shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of April 1, 2011, we had outstanding warrants for an aggregate of 7.3 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.53 per share and options exercisable for an aggregate of 8.0 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.88 per share. The holders may sell these shares in the public markets from time to time, without limitations on the timing, amount or method of sale. As our stock price rises, more outstanding warrants and options will be in-the-money and the holders may exercise their warrants and options and sell a large number of shares. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC QB market place, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is currently quoted under the symbol “PSTX” on the OTC QB market operated by OTC Markets Group, Inc. Prior to February 2007, our stock was listed on the American Stock Exchange, now known as the NYSE Amex, under the symbol “PST.” Prior to March 1, 2011, our stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “PSTX.” The OTC Bulletin Board and the OTC QB market are not “national securities exchanges”, nor do they have any listing standards to which we are bound, and in general are significantly more limited markets than the New York Stock Exchange, NASDAQ system, or our former trading market, now known as the NYSE Amex. The quotation of our shares on the OTC QB could result in a less liquid market being available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, which could depress the trading price of our common stock and have long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Because of the limited trading market for our common stock, and because of the significant price volatility, investors may not be able to sell their shares of common stock when they want to do so. In the year ended December 31, 2010, our stock price ranged from a high of $1.90 to a low of $0.45 per share. The inability to sell shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase the risk of loss as a result of such illiquidity, because the price for our common stock may suffer significant declines due to price volatility. 15 We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility, and the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, may preclude us from paying dividends on our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of potential gain in the foreseeable future. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. We do pay cash and stock dividends on our Series A and Series B Preferred stock in accordance with their terms. Starting in January 1, 2012, we will be required to pay cash dividends on our Series B preferred stock in the amount of approximately $110 thousand per quarter. Common stockholders may not be able to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. The terms of our Series A Preferred Stock provide that if at any time dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be unpaid in an amount equal to two full years’ of dividends (eight quarters), until such time as all dividends in arrears have been paid, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have the right to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. If the company was not able to obtain financing, and not able continue to pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock, holders of our common stock would lose their ability to control our Board of Directors, as the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock would have the right to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. We are currently in arrears on six quarters to the Series A Preferred Stock. We do not intend to go into arrears beyond six quarters, and eventually intend to become current with our Series A Preferred Stock. Our Series B Preferred does not have voting rights except (i) as provided by Delaware law; (ii) upon the occurrence of the fifth anniversary of the issue date; or (iii) upon our failure to pay dividends for two consecutive quarters or three non-consecutive quarters. Upon the occurrence of either event described in (ii) or (iii), the holders of the Series B Preferred are entitled to elect two additional directors to our board of directors and, within two business days, we must create a special committee of our board of directors consisting of up to three directors, of which two must be the two newly-elected additional directors, and promptly grant such special committee sole and exclusive authority and power to investigate, negotiate and consummate a sale of the Company or strategic alternative thereto. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our stock. SEC regulations generally define “penny stocks” as equity securities that have a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of April 1, 2011, the last sale price for our common stock was $0.85 per share. For transactions in securities that are not exempt from the “penny stock” definition, the SEC has adopted rules and regulations that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers prior to selling penny stocks, which may make it burdensome to conduct transactions in our shares. Because our shares are subject to these rules, it may be difficult to sell shares of our stock, and because it may be difficult to find quotations for shares of our stock, it may be very difficult to accurately price an investment in our shares. In addition, the SEC has the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the penny stock rules described above, the FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: · authorizing our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66⅔% stockholder approval; and · requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), which among other things, and subject to various exceptions, restricts against certain business transactions between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock (“an interested stockholder”) for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The Delaware corporate law, in general, prohibits any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our Board of Directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 