Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before you invest in our securities you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this prospectus. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our securities. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business and our products. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Risks relating to our business and structure We have just begun to generate sales from our safety-sponge system and the revenues have just now begun to represent a significant source of revenue for our Company. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 sales from our Safety-Sponge System amounted to $2.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively. Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop our patient-safety related assets into a successful business, which depends upon wide-spread acceptance of and commercializing our Safety-Sponge System. None of these factors is demonstrated by our historic performance to date and there is no assurance we will be able to accomplish them in order to sustain our - 7 - - Table of Contents operations. As a result, you should not rely on our historical results of operations as an indication of the future performance of our business. We intend to undertake additional financings to meet our growth, operating and/or capital needs, which may result in dilution to your ownership and voting rights. We anticipate that revenue from our operations for the foreseeable future will not be sufficient to meet our growth, operating and/or capital requirements. We believe that in order to have the financial resources to meet our operating requirements for the next twelve months we will need to undertake additional equity or debt financings to allow us to meet our future growth, operating and/or capital requirements. We currently have no commitments for any such financings. Any equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or other adverse terms with respect to raising future capital and other financial and operational matters. We may not be able to obtain additional financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we fail to arrange for sufficient capital in the future, we may be required to reduce the scope of our business activities until we can obtain adequate financing. Failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. Any growth in our operations will place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management and on our operational and administrative systems, controls and other resources. There can be no assurance that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. As part of this growth, we may have to implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base and maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing, and sales staffs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to effectively integrate them into our existing staff and systems. We may fail to adequately manage our anticipated future growth. We will also need to continue to attract, retain and integrate personnel in all aspects of our operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could hurt our business. If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate, our ability to compete successfully could be impaired. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright law and trade secret protection to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Detection and elimination of unauthorized use of our products is difficult. We may not have the means, financial or otherwise, to prosecute infringing uses of our intellectual property by third parties. Further, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we will sell our products and offer our services. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims that our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of others or that proprietary rights that we claim are invalid. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Other parties may assert infringement or unfair competition claims against us. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any future claims will prevent us from operating our business as planned. If we are forced to defend against third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could distract technical and management personnel. If an infringement claim is determined against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or ongoing royalties. Further, as a result of infringement claims, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing intellectual property or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, it could significantly harm our business. - 8 - - Table of Contents We have experienced turnover in our chief executive officer position and if we continue with frequent executive turnover we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. In January 2007, Milton “Todd” Ault, III resigned as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, and our Board of Directors appointed William B. Horne as Chief Executive Officer. In April 2008, our Board of Directors appointed William Adams, as our President and Chief Executive Officer. In January 2009, Mr. Adams resigned, and our Board of Directors appointed David I. Bruce as our President and Chief Executive Officer If we are not able to attain stability of our Chief Executive Officer position we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. Auditors’ opinion includes going concern explanatory paragraph. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm dated April 15, 2009 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 includes a going concern explanatory paragraph which states that our significant operating losses and working capital deficit cause substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Risks related to our medical products and healthcare-related business We rely on a third party manufacturer and supplier to manufacture our safety-sponge system, the loss of which may interrupt our operations. On January 29, 2007, SurgiCount entered into an agreement for A Plus International Inc. to be the exclusive manufacturer and provider of SurgiCount's Safety-Sponge products and granted A Plus the exclusive, world-wide license to manufacture and import SurgiCount's products including the right to sublicense to the extent necessary to carry out the grant. While our relationship with A Plus International Inc. is currently on good terms, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our relationship with A Plus International Inc. or secure additional suppliers and manufacturers on favorable terms as needed. Although we believe the raw materials used in the manufacture of the Safety-Sponge System are readily available and can be purchased and/or produced by multiple vendors, the loss of our agreement with A Plus International Inc., deterioration of our relationship with A Plus International Inc., changes in the specifications of components used in our products, or our failure to establish good relationships with major new suppliers or manufacturers as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unpredictable product cycles of the medical device and healthcare-related industries and uncertain demand for products could cause our revenues to fluctuate. Our target customer base includes hospitals, physicians, nurses and clinics. The medical device and healthcare-related industries are subject to rapid technological changes, short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards, as well as economic cycles. If the market for our products does not grow as rapidly as our management expects, our revenues could be less than expected. We also face the risk that changes in the medical device industry, for example, cost-cutting measures, changes to manufacturing techniques or production standards, could cause our manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities to lose widespread market acceptance. If our products do not gain market acceptance or suffer because of competing products, unfavorable regulatory actions, alternative treatment methods or cures, product recalls or liability claims, they will no longer have the need for our products and we may experience a decline in revenues. Adverse economic conditions affecting the medical device and healthcare-related industries, in general, or the market for our products in particular, could result in diminished sales, reduced profit margins and a disruption in our business. We are subject to changes in the regulatory and economic environment in the healthcare industry, which could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry in the United States continues to experience change. In recent years, the United States Congress and state legislatures have introduced and debated various healthcare reform proposals. Federal, state and local government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methodologies, and ongoing public debate of these issues is expected. Cost containment initiatives, market pressures and proposed changes in applicable laws and regulations may have a dramatic effect on pricing or potential demand for medical devices, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both government and third-party payors to persons providing medical services. In particular, the healthcare industry is experiencing market-driven reforms from forces within the industry that are exerting pressure on healthcare companies to reduce healthcare costs. Managed care and other healthcare provider organizations have grown substantially in terms of the percentage of the population in the United States that receives medical benefits through such organizations and in terms of the influence and control that they are able to exert over an increasingly large portion of the healthcare industry. Managed care organizations are continuing to consolidate and grow, increasing the ability of these organizations to influence the practices and - 9 - - Table of Contents pricing involved in the purchase of medical devices, including our products, which is expected to exert downward pressure on product margins. Both short-and long-term cost containment pressures, as well as the possibility of continued regulatory reform, may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to government regulation in the United States and abroad, which can be time consuming and costly to our business. Our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities, including, but not limited to, the FDA and state and foreign governmental authorities. In particular, we must obtain specific clearance or approval from the FDA before we can market new products or certain modified products in the United States. The FDA administers the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the "FDC ACT"). Under the FDC Act, most medical devices must receive FDA clearance through the Section 510(k) notification process ("510(K)") or the more lengthy premarket approval ("PMA") process before they can be sold in the United States. The Safety-Sponge System has received 501(k) clearance to from the FDA. To obtain 510(k) marketing clearance, a company must show that a new product is "substantially equivalent" in terms of safety and effectiveness to a product already legally marketed. The process of obtaining such clearances or approvals can be time-consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that all clearances or approvals sought by us will be granted or that FDA review will not involve delays adversely affecting the marketing and sale of our products. FDA's quality system regulations also require companies to adhere to certain good manufacturing practices requirements, which include testing, quality control, storage, and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic site inspections by the FDA. In addition, we are required to comply with FDA requirements for labeling and promotion. The Federal Trade Commission also regulates most device advertising. In addition, international regulatory bodies often establish varying regulations governing product testing and licensing standards, manufacturing compliance, such as compliance with ISO 9001 standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements and pricing and reimbursement levels. Our inability or failure to comply with the varying regulations or the imposition of new regulations could restrict our ability to sell our products internationally and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations could subject us to enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, product seizures, injunctions, recalls, possible withdrawal of product clearances, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations of regulatory requirements. Any such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to intense competition in the medical products and health-care related markets, which could harm our business. The medical products and healthcare solutions industry is highly competitive. We compete against other medical products and healthcare solutions companies, some of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial resources, management resources, research and development staffs, sales and marketing organizations and experience in the medical products and healthcare solutions industries than us. In addition, these companies compete with us to acquire technologies from universities and research laboratories. We also compete against large companies that seek to license medical products and healthcare solutions technologies for themselves. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against these competitors in the acquisition, development, or commercialization of any medical products and healthcare solutions, funding of medical products and healthcare solutions companies or marketing of our products and solutions. If we cannot compete effectively against our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims and if our insurance is not sufficient to cover product liability claims our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The nature of our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the distribution of medical equipment and healthcare products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure, since third parties develop and manufacture our equipment and products. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us or any third party manufacturer then we would experience adverse consequences to our reputation, we might be required to pay damages, our insurance, legal and other expenses would increase, we might lose customers and/or suppliers and there may be other adverse results. - 10 - - Table of Contents Through our subsidiary SurgiCount Medical, Inc. we have general liability insurance to cover claims up to $3,000,000. In addition, A Plus International, Inc., the manufacturer of our surgical sponges, maintains general liability insurance for claims up to $4,000,000. These general liability insurance policies cover product liability claims against SurgiCount Medical, Inc. There can be no assurance that one or more liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of any of such policies. If we or our manufacturer are subjected to product liability claims, the result of such claims could harm our reputation and lead to less acceptance of our products in the healthcare products market. In addition, if our insurance or our manufacturer's insurance is not sufficient to cover product liability claims, our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Risks related to our investments We have investments in non-marketable investment securities which may subject us to significant impairment charges. We have investments in illiquid equity securities acquired directly from issuers in private transactions. At December 31, 2008, 8.4% of our consolidated assets were comprised of investment securities, which are illiquid investments. Investments in illiquid, or non-marketable, securities are inherently risky and difficult to value. In the event the value of the securities we hold are deemed impaired this could have a material impact on our financial condition. We review our investment in non-marketable securities on an annual basis for indicators of impairment, however, for non-marketable equity securities, the impairment analysis required significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. We account for our investments in non-marketable investment securities on a cost basis. . Since a significant amount of our assets are comprised of non-marketable investment securities, any future impairment charges from the write down in value of these securities will most likely have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Risks related to our common stock Our common stock is subject to price volatility. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors beyond our control, including: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results; · announcements of technological innovations, new products or pricing by our competitors; · the rate of adoption by hospitals of SurgiCount Medical technology in targeted markets; · the timing and extent of technological advancements, patent and regulatory approvals; · the impact of acquisitions, strategic alliances, and other significant corporate events; · anything other than unqualified reports by our outside auditors; · the sales of our common stock by affiliates or other shareholders with large holdings; and · general economic and market conditions, including the recent instability in the financial markets and global economy. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations of securities industry analysts or investors. Any such shortfall could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has at times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the stock of many medical device companies that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may directly influence the market price of our common stock. - 11 - - Table of Contents Our common stock is subject to the "penny stock" rules of the SEC, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor, a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. · In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We depend upon our SurgiCount Medical product line, which is in its early stages of market acceptance. Our future is dependent upon the success of the SurgiCount Medical product line and similar products that are based on the same core technology. The market for these products is in a relatively early stage of development, less than 1% penetrated, and may never fully develop as we expect. The long-term commercial success of the SurgiCount Medical product line requires widespread acceptance of our products as safe, efficient and cost-effective. Widespread acceptance would represent a significant change in medical practice patterns. The capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability, which has had and could continue to have a negative impact on the availability and cost of capital. The general disruption in the U.S. capital markets has impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. These conditions could persist for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. - 12 - - Table of Contents To service or retire our debt when and as due, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our operating performance. This, in part, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or indebtedness or refinance or restructure our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We cannot assure you as to the timing of such sales or the proceeds that we could realize from such sales or if additional debt or equity financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our quarterly operating results frequently vary due to factors outside our control. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to a number of factors. We cannot control many of these factors, which include the following: · the timing and number of new competing product introductions; · the market acceptance of, and changes in demand for our products; · the impact of any changes in generally accepted accounting principles; · the loss of, or ordering delays by any of our strategic partners; · product returns or bad debt write-offs; · changes in pricing policies by our competitors; · The timing of customer orders and shipments; · Accordingly, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results as indications of future results. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” requires that we test goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for impairment on an annual, or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. In addition, under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, long-lived assets with finite lives are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant decrease in the fair value of a long-lived asset, an adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition or an expectation that a long-lived asset will be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated life are among several of the factors that could result in an impairment charge. We evaluate intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sales or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below our book value for an extended period of time. We evaluate the estimated lives of all intangible assets on an annual basis, to determine if events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life or the remaining useful life, as applicable, or if a revision in the remaining period of amortization is required. The amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. - 13 - - Table of Contents We may need additional capital, which may be unavailable. The commercialization of our current product line, acquisition of complimentary technologies and the development and commercialization of any additional products may require greater expenditures than expected in our current business plan. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: · our rate of sales growth—fast growth may actually increase our need for additional capital to hire additional staff, purchase additional inventory, and finance the increase in accounts receivable; · the level of resources that we devote to the development, manufacture and marketing of our products—any decision we make to improve, expand, acquire complimentary technologies or simply change our process, products or technology may require increased funds; · facilities requirements—as we grow we need additional manufacturing, warehousing and administration facilities and the costs of the facilities will be borne before substantially increased revenue from growth would occur; · market acceptance and demand for our products—although growth may increase our capital needs, the lack of growth and continued losses would also increase our need for capital; and · customer financing strategies—our attempt to accelerate the purchasing processes by offering internal financing programs and by providing purchasers with extended payment terms would consume additional capital. We may be unable to predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing, bank loans, collaborative relationships or other arrangements earlier than expected. As a result, additional funding may not be available at attractive terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain additional capital when needed, we may be forced to agree to unattractive financing terms, to change our method of operation or to curtail our operations. Technological change is difficult to predict and new product transitions are difficult to manage. Our product line has required, and any future products will require, substantial development efforts and compliance with governmental clearance or approval requirements. We may encounter unforeseen technological or scientific problems that force abandonment or substantial change in the development of a specific product or process. In addition, as we introduce new products and product enhancements, we may not be able to effectively segregate or transition from existing products which could negatively impact revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. We depend on management and other key personnel. We are dependent on a limited number of key management, sales and technical personnel. The loss of one or more of our key employees may hurt our business if we are unable to identify other individuals to provide us with similar services. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. We face intense competition in our recruiting activities and may not be able to attract or retain qualified personnel. We have historically used stock options or shares of restricted stock as key components of our total employee compensation program. In recent periods, many of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain and attract present and prospective employees. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”), has required us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives which has changed our compensation strategy. Our ability to retain our existing personnel and attract additional highly qualified personnel may impact our future success. We must maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties to increase market penetration of our product lines. We distribute our products through distributors and through our direct sales force. We may enter into similar agreements with other companies and establish technology partnerships with other medical product, distribution and technology companies. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct sales force and strategic distribution partners is a complex process. Widespread acceptance of our SurgiCountMedcialproducts may be dependent on our establishing and maintaining these strategic relationships with third parties and on the successful distribution efforts of third parties. Many aspects of our relationships with third parties, and the success with which third parties promote distribution of our products, are beyond our control. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining our existing strategic relationships and in identifying and entering into future development and distribution agreements with third parties. - 14 - - Table of Contents If market conditions cause us to reduce the selling price of our products, our margins and operating results will decrease. The selling price of our product are subject to market conditions. Market conditions that could impact these aspects of our operations include: · changes in the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers; · hospital budgetary constraints; · the introduction of competing products; · price reductions by our competitors; · tightening of credit for hospitals desiring to finance their purchase of our equipment; · development of more effective products by our competitors; and · lengthening of buying or selling cycles. If such conditions force us to sell our products and systems at lower prices, or if we are unable to effectively develop and market competitive products, our market share, margins and operating results will likely decrease. We are subject to stock exchange and government regulation. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and SEC and stock exchange regulations have increased financial reporting and disclosure requirements, corporate governance and internal control requirements, and have significantly increased the administrative costs of documenting and auditing internal processes, gathering data, and reporting information. The need to commit substantial resources and management attention in these areas impacts our ability to deploy those same resources to other areas of our business. If the regulations substantially increase or we are unable to comply with the requirements, it could significantly impact our market valuation. We may not have adequate intellectual property protection. Our patents and proprietary technology may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, if our actions to enforce our patents are found to be a violation of laws related to unlawful tying or restraint of trade, we may be required to pay damages to third parties, which could be costly and could harm our business. The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that future patent applications will be issued, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that such patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with a competitive advantage. Our patents may be found to be invalid and other companies may claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held or licensed by us. Also, our existing patents may not cover products that we develop in the future. Moreover, when our patents expire, the inventions will enter the public domain. We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We face competition from other companies and technologies. We compete with other companies that are developing and marketing. Many of these companies or their distributors may have more established and larger marketing and sales organizations, significantly greater financial and technical resources and a larger installed base of customers than we do. The introduction by others of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, other technologies or products may be developed that have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the intended purposes of our products. Accordingly, the life cycles of our products are difficult to estimate. To compete successfully, we must develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological advancements, respond to evolving consumer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We may be unable to develop new products that address our competition. - 15 - - Table of Contents We may not be able to manage growth successfully. If successful, we will experience a period of growth that could place a significant strain upon our managerial, financial and operational resources. Our infrastructure, procedures, controls and information systems may not be adequate to support our operations and to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully market our products. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to continually upgrade our information systems, expand our direct sales force and our internal sales, marketing and support staff. If we are unable to manage future expansion effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer, our senior management will be less effective, and our revenues and product development results may decrease. Our limited order backlog makes it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which can lead to lower revenues, higher expenses and reduced margins. Our customers typically order products on a purchase order basis, in limited circumstances, customer orders may be cancelled, changed or delayed on short notice. Lack of significant order backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast future sales with certainty. Varying sales cycles with our customers make it difficult to accurately forecast component and product requirements. These factors expose us to a number of risks: · If we overestimate our requirements we may be obligated to purchase more components or third-party products than is required; · If we underestimate our requirements, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers may have an inadequate product inventory, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues; · We may also experience shortages of product components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products; and · Over or under production can lead to higher expense, lower than anticipated revenues, and reduced margins. We depend on third parties for development and manufacturing services. Our strategy for development and commercialization of our products depends upon entering into various arrangements with third parties and upon the subsequent success of these parties in performing their obligations. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable arrangements in the future, and our existing arrangements may not be successful. We rely on third parties to manufacture our SurgiCount Medical scanners and we currently have our products manufactured by a limited number of manufacturers. Therefore, we are dependent on these manufacturers. If we experience a termination, modification or disruption of any of our manufacturing arrangements, we may be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. We have a history of losses and may experience continued losses. We have experienced losses every year because we have expended more money in the course of developing our products and establishing and maintaining our sales, marketing and administrative organizations than we have generated in revenues. We expect that our operating expenses will continue at current levels and eventually increase in the foreseeable future as we increase our sales and marketing activities, expand our operations and continue to develop our technology. It is possible that we will not be able to achieve the revenue levels required to achieve and sustain profitability. We may not continue to receive necessary FDA or other regulatory clearances or approvals. Our products and activities are subject to ongoing regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and other governmental authorities. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals, or any failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent our ability to market or distribute our product line. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. - 16 - - Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company currently has one unresolved comment from their December 31, 2007 form 10-K regarding revenue recognition for sales of the SurgiCount Medical scanner and related software. 