Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before you invest in our securities you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this prospectus. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our securities. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business and our products. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE We have not made any sales or generated any revenue to date from our Safety-Sponge™ System and a substantial amount of our revenue during 2005 is from a related party. Because of this, you should not rely on our historical results of operations as an indication of our future performance. We have not made any sales or generated any revenue to date from our Safety-Sponge™ System. Further, of our $562,374 of revenue during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, $552,375 was generated from a contract to provide management consulting services to one of our portfolio companies IPEX, Inc., which is considered a related party. Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop our patient-safety related assets into a successful business, which depends upon wide-spread acceptance of and commercializing our Safety-Sponge™ System. None of these factors is demonstrated by our historic performance to date and there is no assurance we will be able to accomplish them in order to sustain our operations. As a result, you should not rely on our historical results of operations as an indication of the future performance of our business. We recently restructured our business strategy and objective and have limited operating history under our new structure. If we cannot successfully implement our new business structure the value of your investment in our business could decline. Upon the change of control that occurred in October 2004, we restructured our business strategy and objective to focus on the medical products, healthcare solutions, financial services and real estate industries instead of the radio and telecommunications industries. Although we still own certain real estate assets, we are no longer focusing on the financial services and real estate industries. As of March 29, 2006, our Board of Directors determined to focus our business exclusively on the patient safety medical products field. We have a limited operating history under this new structure. Historically, we have not typically invested in these industries and therefore our historical results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of our future financial performance. If we do not successfully implement our new business structure the value of your investment in our business could decline substantially. Withdrawal of our election to be treated as a BDC may increase the risks to our shareholders since we are no longer subject the regulatory restrictions or financial reporting benefits of the 1940 Act. Since we withdrew our election to be treated as a BDC, we are no longer subject to regulation under the 1940 Act, which is designed to protect the interests of investors in investment companies. As a non-BDC, we are no longer subject to many of the regulatory, financial reporting and other requirements and restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act including, but not limited to, limitations on the amounts, types and prices at which we may issue securities, participation in related party transactions, the payment of compensation to executives, and the scope of eligible investments. 11 The nature of our business has changed from investing in radio and telecommunications companies with the goal of achieving gains on appreciation and dividend income, to actively operating businesses in the medical products, health care solutions, financial services and real estate industries, with the goal of generating income from the operations of those businesses. No assurance can be given that our business strategy or investment objectives will be achieved by withdrawing our election to be treated as a BDC. Further, our election to withdraw as a BDC under the 1940 Act has resulted in a significant change in our method of accounting. BDC financial statement presentation and accounting utilizes the value method of accounting used by investment companies, which allows BDCs to recognize income and value their investments at market value as opposed to historical cost. As an operating company, the required financial statement presentation and accounting for securities held is either fair value or historical cost methods of accounting, depending on the classification of the investment and our intent with respect to the period of time we intend to hold the investment. A change in our method of accounting could reduce the market value of our investments in privately held companies by eliminating our ability to report an increase in the value of our holdings as they occur. Also, as an operating company, we have to consolidate our financial statements with subsidiaries, thus eliminating the portfolio company reporting benefits available to BDCs. The Company and our subsidiaries may have to take actions that are disruptive to our business strategy to avoid registration under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act generally requires companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities to register as investment companies. A company may be deemed to be an investment company if it owns “investment securities” with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (excluding government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, unless an exemption or exclusion applies. Securities issued by companies other than majority-owned subsidiaries are generally counted as investment securities for purposes of the 1940 Act. While on an unconsolidated basis, our subsidiaries’ assets which constitute investment securities have not approached 40%, as of December 31, 2005, 37.9% of our assets on a consolidated basis with subsidiaries were comprised of investment securities. If the Company or any of its subsidiaries were to own investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of its total assets it could require the subsidiary and/or the Company to register as an investment company. Registration as an investment company would subject us to restrictions that are inconsistent with our fundamental business strategy of equity growth through creating, building and operating companies in the medical products and healthcare services industries, particularly the patient safety field. Moreover, registration under the 1940 Act would subject us to increased regulatory and compliance costs, and other restrictions on the way we operate. We may also have to take actions, including buying, refraining from buying, selling or refraining from selling securities, when we would otherwise not choose to do so in order to continue to avoid registration under the 1940 Act. We intend to undertake additional financings to meet our growth, operating and/or capital needs, which may result in dilution to your ownership and voting rights. We anticipate that revenue from our operations for the foreseeable future will not be sufficient to meet our growth, operating and/or capital requirements. We believe that in order to have the financial resources to meet our operating requirements for the next twelve months we will need to undertake additional equity or debt financings to allow us to meet our future growth, operating and/or capital requirements. We currently have no commitments for any such financings. Any equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or other adverse terms with respect to raising future capital and other financial and operational matters. We may not be able to obtain additional financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we fail to arrange for sufficient capital in the future, we may be required to reduce the scope of our business activities until we can obtain adequate financing. 12 We have received shareholder approval to sell up to $10 million of equity and/or debt securities to certain related parties which may result in dilution to your ownership and voting rights or may result in the incurrence of substantial debt. We have received shareholder approval to sell equity and/or debt securities up to $10 million in any calendar year to Milton “Todd” Ault, III, Lynne Silverstein, Louis Glazer, M.D., Ph.G., and Melanie Glazer. Mr. Ault is our former Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Silverstein is our President and Secretary, Mr. Glazer is our present Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Health and Science Officer of our subsidiary Patient Safety Consulting Group, LLC, and Ms. Glazer is the Manager of our subsidiary Ault Glazer Bodnar Capital Properties, LLC and also is Mr. Glazer’s spouse. If we propose to sell more than $10 million of securities in a calendar year to such persons additional shareholder approval would be required. Although we do not currently anticipate selling equity or debt securities to these persons if we do sell any such securities it will result in dilution to your ownership and voting rights and/or possibly result in our incurring substantial debt. Any such equity financing would result in dilution to existing stockholders and may involve securities that have rights, preferences, or privileges that are senior to our common stock. Any such debt financing may be convertible into common stock which would result in dilution to our stockholders and would have rights that are senior to our common stock. Further, any debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether or not we generate profits or cash flows from our business activities, which could strain our capital resources. Should the value of our patents be less than their purchase price, we could incur significant impairment charges. At December 31, 2005, patents received in the acquisition of Surgicount Medical, Inc., net of accumulated amortization, represented $4,413,791, or 27.5%, of our total assets. We perform an annual review in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist to determine if the recorded amount of our patents is impaired. This determination requires significant judgment and changes in our estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or impairment of patents. We may incur charges for the impairment of our patents in the future if sales of our patient safety products, in particular our Safety-Sponge™ System, fail to achieve our assumed revenue growth rates or assumed operating margin results. We may not be able to effectively integrate our acquisition targets, which would be detrimental to our business. On February 25, 2005, we purchased Surgicount Medical, Inc., a holding company for intellectual property rights relating to our Safety-Sponge™ System. We anticipate seeking other acquisitions in furtherance of our plan to acquire assets and businesses in the patient safety medical products industry. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including potential difficulty in integrating operations, technologies, systems, and products and services of acquired companies, diversion of management’s attention and disruption of operations, increased expenses and working capital requirements and the potential loss of key employees and customers of acquired companies. In addition, acquisitions involve financial risks, such as the potential liabilities of the acquired businesses, the dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, the financial impact of transaction expenses and the amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets involved in any transactions that are accounted for by using the purchase method of accounting, and possible adverse tax and accounting effects. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business. Failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. Any growth in our operations will place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management and on our operational and administrative systems, controls and other resources. There can be no assurance that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. As part of this growth, we may have to implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base and maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and editorial staffs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to effectively integrate them into our existing staff and systems. We may fail to adequately manage our anticipated future growth. We will also need to continue to attract, retain and integrate personnel in all aspects of our operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could hurt our business. 13 If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate, our ability to compete successfully could be impaired. In connection with our purchase of Surgicount Medical, Inc., we acquired one registered U.S. patent and one registered international patent of the Safety-Sponge™ System. We regard our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright law and trade secret protection to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Detection and elimination of unauthorized use of our products is difficult. We may not have the means, financial or otherwise, to prosecute infringing uses of our intellectual property by third parties. Further, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we will sell our products and offer our services. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims that our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of others or that proprietary rights that we claim are invalid. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Other parties may assert infringement or unfair competition claims against us. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any future claims will prevent us from operating our business as planned. If we are forced to defend against third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could distract technical and management personnel. If an infringement claim is determined against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or ongoing royalties. Further, as a result of infringement claims, we may be required, or deem it advisable, to develop non-infringing intellectual property or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, it could significantly harm our business. There are significant potential conflicts of interest with our officers, directors and our affiliated entities which could adversely affect our results from operations. Certain of our officers, directors and/or their family members have existing responsibilities and, in the future, may have additional responsibilities, to act and/or provide services as executive officers, directors, owners and/or managers of Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC and/or some of the companies in which we invest. We currently share office space with Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC. William B. Horne, our Chief Financial Officer, and Melanie Glazer, Manager of our subsidiary Ault Glazer Bodnar Capital Properties, LLC, are principals of Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC. Mr. Horne devotes approximately 85% of his time to our business, based on a 60-hour, 6-day workweek. Mrs. Glazer works full time for Ault Glazer Bodnar Capital Properties, LLC. Mrs. Glazer is married to Louis Glazer, M.D., Ph.G., our current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Health and Science Officer of Patient Safety Consulting Group, LLC. Our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Milton “Todd” Ault, III, also is a principal of Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC. Accordingly, certain conflicts of interest may arise from time to time with our officers, directors and Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC. 14 Certain conflicts of interest may also arise from time to time with our officers, directors and the companies in which we invest. Of our $562,374 of revenue during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, $552,375 resulted from a contract to provide management consulting services to our portfolio company IPEX, Inc. Mr. Ault is currently a director of IPEX, Inc. and he served as interim Chief Executive Officer of IPEX, Inc. from May 26, 2005 until July 13, 2005. From May 28, 2005 until approximately December 14, 2005 Mr. Ault held an irrevocable proxy to vote 67% of the outstanding shares of IPEX, Inc. owned by the former Chief Executive Officer and a founder of IPEX, Inc. Darrell W. Grimsley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of Automotive Services Group, LLC, a subsidiary which, as of March 14, 2006, is wholly owned by Ault Glazer Bodnar Merchant Capital, Inc., served as a director of IPEX, Inc. and a member of its Audit Committee from August 30, 2005 until January 30, 2006. Ms. Campbell served as a director of IPEX, Inc. and Chairman of its Audit Committee from June 23, 2005 until January 30, 2006. Mr. Horne is currently Chief Financial Officer and a director of our portfolio company Digicorp. From September 30, 2005 until December 29, 2005, Mr. Horne also served as Digicorp’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Digicorp’s Board of Directors. One of our directors and Audit Committee Chairman, Alice Campbell, is currently a director of Digicorp. Mr. Ault served as Chief Executive Officer of Digicorp from April 26, 2005 until September 30, 2005 and Chairman of Digicorp’s Board of Directors from July 16, 2005 until September 30, 2005. Ms. Glazer served as a director of Digicorp from December 30, 2004 until December 29, 2005 and Chairman of Digicorp’s Board of Directors from December 30, 2004 until July 16, 2005. Ms. Silverstein served as Secretary of Digicorp from April 26, 2005 until December 29, 2005. Mr. Grimsley served as a director of Digicorp from July 16, 2005 until December 29, 2005. Because of these possible conflicts of interest, such individuals may direct potential business and investment opportunities to other entities rather than to us, which may not be in the best interest of our stockholders. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our Board of Directors does not believe that we have experienced any losses due to any conflicts of interest with the business of Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC, other than certain of our officers’ responsibility to devote their time to provide management and administrative services to Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC and its clients from time-to-time. Similarly, our Board of Directors does not believe that it has experienced any losses due to any conflicts of interest with the companies in which we hold investments other than certain of our officers’ and directors’ responsibility to devote their time to provide management services to some of such companies. However, subject to applicable law, we may engage in transactions with Ault Glazer Bodnar & Company Investment Management LLC and other related parties in the future. These related party transactions may raise conflicts of interest and, although we do not have a formal policy to address such conflicts of interest, our Audit Committee intends to evaluate relationships and transactions involving conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis and the approval of our Audit Committee is required for all such transactions. The Audit Committee intends that any related party transactions will be on terms and conditions no less favorable to us than terms and conditions reasonably obtainable from third parties and in accordance with applicable law. Our management has limited experience in managing and operating a public company. Any failure to comply or adequately comply with federal securities laws, rules or regulations could subject us to fines or regulatory actions, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although our present Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Louis Glazer, M.D., Ph.G., has extensive experience in the medical field, he has limited experience managing and operating a public company. In addition, prior to the change in control that occurred in October 2004, other members of our current senior management were primarily engaged in operating a private investment management firm. In this capacity they developed a general understanding of the administrative and regulatory environment in which public companies operate. However, our senior management lacks practical experience operating a public company and relies in many instances on the professional experience and advice of third parties including its consultants, attorneys and accountants. Failure to comply or adequately comply with any laws, rules, or regulations applicable to our business may result in fines or regulatory actions, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operation, or financial condition. 15 We have experienced turnover in our Chief Executive Officer position in recent months and we are presently searching for a new Chief Executive Officer to replace Dr. Louis Glazer. If we are not able to retain a new Chief Executive Officer with significant professional experience in the patient safety or medical markets and pubic market experience, we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. Milton “Todd” Ault, III resigned as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on January 9, 2006. On January 7, 2006, our Board of Directors appointed Louis Glazer, M.D., Ph.G. as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in anticipation of Mr. Ault’s resignation. During March 2005, Dr. Glazer has indicated his intent to resign as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at such time that we retain a suitable candidate for the position of Chief Executive Officer. Our future success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain such a candidate. Although we do not believe we have experienced any losses or negative effects from Mr. Ault’s resignation and we do not expect any adverse consequences from the resignation of Dr. Glazer, if we are not able to retain a new Chief Executive Officer with significant professional experience in the patient safety or medical markets and public market experience, we may have difficulty implementing our business strategy. Our former Chief Executive Officer controls a significant portion of our outstanding common stock and his ownership interest may conflict with our other stockholders who may be unable to influence management and exercise control over our business. As of March 26, 2006, Milton “Todd” Ault, III, our former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, beneficially owned approximately 26.6% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Ault may be able to exert significant influence over our management and policies to: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. Accordingly, our other stockholders may be unable to influence management and exercise control over our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR MEDICAL PRODUCTS AND HEALTHCARE-RELATED BUSINESS We rely on a third party manufacturer and supplier to manufacture our Safety-Sponge™ System, the loss of which may interrupt our operations. On August 17, 2005, Surgicount entered into an agreement for A Plus International Inc. to be the exclusive manufacturer and provider of Surgicount’s Safety-Sponge™ products. In the event A Plus International Inc. does not meet the requirements of the agreement, Surgicount may seek additional providers of the Safety-Sponge™ products. While our relationship with A Plus International Inc. is currently on good terms, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our relationship with A Plus International Inc. or secure additional suppliers and manufacturers on favorable terms as needed. Although we believe the materials used in the manufacture of the Safety-Sponge™ System are readily available and can be purchased and/or produced by multiple vendors, the loss of our agreement with A Plus International Inc., the deterioration of our relationship with A Plus International Inc., changes in the specifications of components used in our products, or our failure to establish good relationships with major new suppliers or manufacturers as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The unpredictable product cycles of the medical device and healthcare-related industries and uncertain demand for products could cause our revenues to fluctuate. Our target customer base includes hospitals, physicians, nurses and clinics. The medical device and healthcare-related industries are subject to rapid technological changes, short product life cycles, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards, as well as economic cycles. If the market for our products does not grow as rapidly as our management expects, our revenues could be less than expected. We also face the risk that changes in the medical device industry, for example, cost-cutting measures, changes to manufacturing techniques or production standards, could cause our manufacturing, design and engineering capabilities to lose widespread market acceptance. If our products do not gain market acceptance or suffer because of competing products, unfavorable regulatory actions, alternative treatment methods or cures, product recalls or liability claims, they will no longer have the need for our products and we may experience a decline in revenues. Adverse economic conditions affecting the medical device and healthcare-related industries, in general, or the market for our products in particular, could result in diminished sales, reduced profit margins and a disruption in our business. We are subject to changes in the regulatory and economic environment in the healthcare industry, which could adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry in the United States continues to experience change. In recent years, the United States Congress and state legislatures have introduced and debated various healthcare reform proposals. Federal, state and local government representatives will, in all likelihood, continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methodologies, and ongoing public debate of these issues is expected. Cost containment initiatives, market pressures and proposed changes in applicable laws and regulations may have a dramatic effect on pricing or potential demand for medical devices, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both government and third-party payors to persons providing medical services. In particular, the healthcare industry is experiencing market-driven reforms from forces within the industry that are exerting pressure on healthcare companies to reduce healthcare costs. Managed care and other healthcare provider organizations have grown substantially in terms of the percentage of the population in the United States that receives medical benefits through such organizations and in terms of the influence and control that they are able to exert over an increasingly large portion of the healthcare industry. Managed care organizations are continuing to consolidate and grow, increasing the ability of these organizations to influence the practices and pricing involved in the purchase of medical devices, including our products, which is expected to exert downward pressure on product margins. Both short-and long-term cost containment pressures, as well as the possibility of continued regulatory reform, may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to government regulation in the United States and abroad, which can be time consuming and costly to our business. Our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities, including, but not limited to, the FDA and state and foreign governmental authorities. In particular, we must obtain specific clearance or approval from the FDA before we can market new products or certain modified products in the United States. The FDA administers the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”). Under the FDC Act, most medical devices must receive FDA clearance through the Section 510(k) notification process (“510(k)”) or the more lengthy premarket approval (“PMA”) process before they can be sold in the United States. All of our products, currently consisting only of the Safety-Sponge™ System, must receive 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The Safety-Sponge™ System has already received 501(k) exempt status from the FDA. To obtain 510(k) marketing clearance, a company must show that a new product is “substantially equivalent” in terms of safety and effectiveness to a product already legally marketed and which does not require a PMA. Therefore, it is not always necessary to prove the actual safety and effectiveness of the new product in order to obtain 510(k) clearance for such product. To obtain a PMA, we must submit extensive data, including clinical trial data, to prove the safety, effectiveness and clinical utility of our products. The process of obtaining such clearances or approvals can be time-consuming and expensive, and there can be no assurance that all clearances or approvals sought by us will be granted or that FDA review will not involve delays adversely affecting the marketing and sale of our products. FDA’s quality system regulations also require companies to adhere to certain good manufacturing practices requirements, which include testing, quality control, storage, and documentation procedures. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is monitored through periodic site inspections by the FDA. In addition, we are required to comply with FDA requirements for labeling and promotion. The Federal Trade Commission also regulates most device advertising. 17 In addition, international regulatory bodies often establish varying regulations governing product testing and licensing standards, manufacturing compliance, such as compliance with ISO 9001 standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements and pricing and reimbursement levels. Our inability or failure to comply with the varying regulations or the imposition of new regulations could restrict our ability to sell our products internationally and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations could subject us to enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, product seizures, injunctions, recalls, possible withdrawal of product clearances, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, any one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes, as are administrative interpretations of regulatory requirements. Any such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to intense competition in the medical products and health-care related markets, which could harm our business. The medical products and healthcare solutions industry is highly competitive. We compete against other medical products and healthcare solutions companies, some of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial resources, management resources, research and development staffs, sales and marketing organizations and experience in the medical products and healthcare solutions industries than us. In addition, these companies compete with us to acquire technologies from universities and research laboratories. We also compete against large companies that seek to license medical products and healthcare solutions technologies for themselves. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against these competitors in the acquisition, development, or commercialization of any medical products and healthcare solutions, funding of medical products and healthcare solutions companies or marketing of our products and solutions. If we cannot compete effectively against our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims and if our insurance is not sufficient to cover product liability claims our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The nature of our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the distribution of medical equipment and healthcare products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure, since third parties develop and manufacture our equipment and products. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us or any third party manufacturer then we would experience adverse consequences to our reputation, we might be required to pay damages, our insurance, legal and other expenses would increase, we might lose customers and/or suppliers and there may be other adverse results. Through our subsidiary Surgicount Medical, Inc. we have general liability insurance to cover claims up to $1,000,000. This insurance covers the clinical trial/time study relating to the bar coding of surgical sponges only. In addition, A Plus International, Inc., the manufacturer of our surgical sponges, maintains general liability insurance for claims up to $4,000,000 that covers product liability claims against Surgicount Medical, Inc. There can be no assurance that one or more liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of any of such policies. If we or our manufacturer are subjected to product liability claims, the result of such claims could harm our reputation and lead to less acceptance of our products in the healthcare products market. In addition, if our insurance or our manufacturer’s insurance is not sufficient to cover product liability claims, our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 18 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results due to the success rate of investments we hold. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the success rate of our current investments, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. We have invested in non-marketable investment securities which may subject us to significant impairment charges. We have invested in illiquid equity securities acquired directly from issuers in private transactions. At December 31, 2005, 40.9% of the Company’s assets on a consolidated basis with subsidiaries were comprised of investment securities, the majority of which are illiquid investments. Investments in illiquid, or non-marketable, securities are inherently risky and a number of the companies we invest in are expected to fail. We review all of our investments quarterly for indicators of impairment; however, for non-marketable equity securities, the impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a material adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. The indicators we use to identify those events or circumstances include as relevant, the nature and value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to valuations of publicly traded companies, comparisons to recent sales of comparable companies, the discounted cash flows of the portfolio company and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. Investments identified as having an indicator of impairment are subject to further analysis to determine if the investment is other than temporarily impaired, in which case we write the investment down to its impaired value. When a company in which we hold investments is not considered viable from a financial or technological point of view, we write down the entire investment since we consider the estimated fair market value to be nominal. Although we only recognized a $50,000 impairment charge for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, since a significant amount of our assets are comprised of non-marketable investment securities, any future impairment charges from the write down in value of these securities will most likely have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Economic recessions or downturns could impair investments and harm our operating results. Many of the companies in which we have made investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. An economic slowdown may affect the ability of a company to engage in a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial public offering. Our nonperforming assets are likely to increase and the value of our investments is likely to decrease during these periods. These conditions could lead to financial losses in our investments and a decrease in our revenues, net income, and assets. Our investments also may be affected by current and future market conditions. Significant changes in the capital markets could have an effect on the valuations of private companies and on the potential for liquidity events involving such companies. This could affect the amount and timing of gains or losses realized on our investments. Investing in private companies involves a high degree of risk. Our assets include an investment in a private company, a 1.6% equity interest in Alacra Corporation. Investments in private businesses involve a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and accordingly should be considered speculative. Because of the speculative nature and the lack of a public market for this investment, there is significantly greater risk of loss than is the case with traditional investment securities. We expect that some of our investments will be a complete loss or will be unprofitable and that some will appear to be likely to become successful but never realize their potential. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we wrote off our investment in the private company China Nurse LLC. The amount of the loss was $50,000. We have in the past relied, and we continue to rely to a large extent, upon proceeds from sales of investments rather than investment income or revenue generated from operating activities to defray a significant portion of our operating expenses. 19 The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. A portion of our investments consist of securities acquired directly from the issuer in private transactions. Some of these investments are subject to restrictions on resale and/or otherwise are illiquid. While most of these investments are in publicly traded companies, the trading volume in such companies’ securities is low which reduces the liquidity of the investment. Additionally, many of such securities are not eligible for sale to the public without registration under the Securities Act of 1933, which could prevent or delay any sale by us of such investments or reduce the amount of proceeds that might otherwise be realized therefrom. Restricted securities generally sell at a price lower than similar securities not subject to restrictions on resale. The illiquidity of our investments may adversely affect our ability to dispose of debt and equity securities at times when it may be otherwise advantageous for us to liquidate such investments. In addition, if we were forced to immediately liquidate some or all of our investments, the proceeds of such liquidation may be significantly less than the value at which we acquired those investments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Our investments are primarily in equity securities of other companies. These equity interests may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. There is uncertainty regarding the value of our investments that are not publicly trades securities, which could adversely affect the determination of our asset value. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded securities is not readily determinable. Therefore, we value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. The types of factors that our Board of Directors takes into account include, as relevant, the nature and value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to valuations of publicly traded companies, comparisons to recent sales of comparable companies, the discounted value of the cash flows of the portfolio company and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a ready market for these securities existed. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies, and other lenders. Lenders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our common shareholders. If the value of our consolidated assets increases, then leveraging would cause the value of our consolidated assets to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause the value of our consolidated net assets to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. 20 RISKS RELATED TO OUR REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may limit revenues from our real estate properties and available cash. The value of our real estate holdings is affected by many factors including, but not limited to: national, regional and local economic conditions; consequences of any armed conflict involving or terrorist attacks against the United States; our ability to secure adequate insurance; local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in a particular area; competition from other available space; whether tenants consider a property attractive; the financial condition of tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults; whether we are able to pass some or all of any increased operating costs through to tenants; how well we manage our properties; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation or zoning laws; government regulation; potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and general competitive factors. The rents we expect to receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may not materialize as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If our rental revenue fails to materialize, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay our operating costs. In addition, some expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline when the related rents decline. Our current real estate holdings are concentrated in Heber Springs, Arkansas and Springfield, Tennessee. Adverse circumstances affecting these areas generally could adversely affect our business. A significant proportion of our real estate investments are in Heber Springs, Arkansas and Springfield, Tennessee and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those regions. Like other real estate markets, the real estate markets in these areas have experienced economic downturns in the past, and we cannot predict how the current economic conditions will impact these markets in both the short and long term. Further declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. The factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include: business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing demographics; and any oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAR WASH BUSINESS If a competing car wash facility is opened within the service area of one of our express car wash sites our car wash business may lose revenue. Our indirect wholly owned subsidiary Automotive Services Group, LLC (“ASG”) is in the business of operating express car wash facilities. ASG’s first express car wash site, developed in Birmingham, Alabama, had its grand opening on March 8, 2006. ASG chooses locations for its express car wash sites based on the locations’ high visibility and proximity to high automobile traffic. Competitors may develop facilities offering similar services within the service area of ASG’s express car wash facilities, which could cause ASG’s car wash facilities to lose revenue. ASG will attempt to mitigate this risk during site due diligence, conducting discussions with local permitting and zoning personnel to determine if competing facilities have been planned or requested within the relevant service area. However, such due diligence, no matter how extensive, may not always reveal any planned competing businesses in a particular service area. In addition, a competing car wash site may be developed after ASG begins operating a car wash in a particular service area. If competing facilities are developed in the same service area as one or more of ASG’s express car wash sites, it could cause ASG to lose a significant amount of revenue and may require ASG to close one or more express car wash sites. Adverse weather conditions may cause ASG’s express car was sites to lose revenue. Automobile owners generally do not wash their vehicles during extreme weather conditions. During rainy periods automobile owners do not generally wash their vehicles because rain and mud causes the vehicles to quickly become dirty again. During periods of severe drought automobile owners may not desire to wash their vehicles because they do not want to endure extreme outdoor temperatures. Further during severe drought conditions local governments tend to impose restrictions on when and in what amounts residents can use water. Any such adverse weather conditions may cause unpredictable business cycles for ASG and may cause ASG’s express car wash sites to lose a significant amount of revenue. 21 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. Further, the limited market for our shares will make our price more volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Over the past two fiscal years and the subsequent interim quarterly periods, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $0.30 to $7.33 (as adjusted to reflect a 3:1 forward stock split effective April 5, 2005). Any future market price for our shares may continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Our common stock is currently listed on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”). As of March 27, 2006, the average daily trading volume of our common stock over the past three months was approximately 11,589 shares. The last reported sales price for our common stock on March 27, 2006, was $3.09 per share. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of AMEX, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on AMEX under the symbol “PST”. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on AMEX, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards. On June 24, 2004, we received a letter from AMEX inquiring as to our ability to remain listed. Specifically, AMEX indicated that our common stock was subject to delisting under sections 1003(a)(i) and 1003(a)(ii) of AMEX’s Company Guide because our stockholders’ equity was below the level required by AMEX’s continued listing standards. Our stockholders’ equity fell below the required standard due to years of continued losses. On September 15, 2004, AMEX notified us that it had accepted our proposed plan to comply with AMEX’s continued listing standards. Significant events which increased our stockholders’ equity in excess of AMEX’s continued listing standards were the completion of an approximately $4 million equity financing combined with the acquisition of Surgicount Medical, Inc. which was done primarily through the issuance of common stock. AMEX will normally consider suspending dealings in, or removing from the listing of, securities of a company under Section 1003(a)(i) for a company that has stockholders' equity of less than $2,000,000 if such company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years; or under Section 1003(a)(ii) for a company that has stockholders' equity of less than $4,000,000 if such company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. As of June 30, 2005, our second consecutive quarter in which our stockholders’ equity was in excess of $4,000,000, we believe we have re-gained compliance with AMEX’s continued listing requirements. As of December 31, 2005 our stockholders’ equity was still in excess of that required under Section 1003(a)(ii) of AMEX’s Company Guide. If we were to again become noncompliant with AMEX’s continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse affect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. 22 If we are delisted from AMEX, our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 require: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 