Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You are encouraged to review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Our Business is Vulnerable to Changing Economic Conditions. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, or higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by an increase in interest rates causing an increase in interest expense. Our Laughlin Property is Vulnerable to Existing and New Competitors and Their Capital Investments. Recent acquisition by competitors of casino/hotel properties in Laughlin could produce unfavorable operating results if the investments by competitors are successful in capturing market share from the Company’s Laughlin property. These new competitors may have greater capital resources and liquidity than the Company. Redemption of the Company’s Preferred Stock and Redemption Price Disputes. The Company called all outstanding shares of its Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock for redemption on and as of August 31, 2007, at a redemption price of $5.241 per share, which sum included accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of redemption. From and after August 31, 2007, all shares of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock ceased to be outstanding and to accrue dividends. As of January 09, 2009, the holders of 4,259,252 shares of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock have surrendered their shares and received payment of the redemption price. On August 27, 2007, a group of institutional investors filed an action, in Nevada, against the registrant. The Complaint was subsequently amended to add an additional party plaintiff (collectively, the “Plaintiffs”). The Amended Complaint: (i) seeks a finding by the Court that the Company has breached its obligations under the Company’s Certificate of Designation of the Preferred Stock, dated September 30, 1993 (the “Certificate”), and awarding the Plaintiffs full compensation of any and all available damages suffered by the Plaintiffs as a result of 6 Table of Contents the Company’s breach of the Certificate; (ii) seeks a finding by the Court that the Company’s issuance of its redemption notice with an improper redemption price is an anticipatory breach of a material term of the Certificate and awarding the Plaintiffs full compensation of any and all available damages suffered as a result of the Company’s anticipatory breach of the Certificate; (iii) seeks a declaration by the Court that the dividends be properly calculated and compounded per the terms of the Certificate in an amount no less than $7,235,351 up through and including the date of final judgment; (iv) seeks an order from the Court calling for the Company to reimburse the Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs incurred in enforcing their rights; and (v) seeks such other and further relief as the Court may deem appropriate. The Plaintiffs, thereafter, filed a motion for partial summary judgment (the “Motion”), seeking a ruling from the court that the Company breached its obligations under the Certificate of Designation by calculating the redemption price as it did. The Court granted that Motion on August 8, 2008, finding the language of the Certificate of Designation to be unambiguous and that the redemption price should have been calculated differently. The Court has not yet issued a monetary judgment against the Company. Mediation of certain issues is planned for the near future and the Company intends on appealing the adverse decision of the court on the Motion, if necessary. The Company is also considering its rights and remedies against third parties in the event that it does not prevail on its interpretation of the Certificate of Designation of the Preferred Stock. Also subsequent to the end of the Company’s fiscal year, two former holders of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock filed Complaints, both alleging essentially the same claim as in the first complaint related to the case set forth immediately above. If the plaintiffs in these two additional actions are correct, the redemption price as of August 31, 2007 should have been $8.69 per share and not $5.241 per share as calculated by the Company. If applied to all the then outstanding shares of Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock, including the shares held by the Company’s officers and directors, valuation of the redemption price at $8.69 per share would increase the redemption price in excess of $15.2 million. A Significant Decline in Real Estate Values may have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company owns real estate on the Strip and on the East Coast of the United States. Although the Company is presently not dependent on cash flows from these properties, a significant decline in real estate values in these markets could have an impact on the Company’s ability to readily generate cash flow from the real estate. Our Outstanding Debt Obligations Subject us to Additional Risks. Effective May 20, 2008, the Company completed a new bank credit facility for $29.0 million of which $9.8 million is outstanding and $19.2 million remains available to the Company. The bank credit facility is due on May 20, 2009 and its interest rate is a floating commercial loan rate publicly announced from time-to-time (the “Colonial Bank Base Rate”) with a floor of 6%. The interest rate is currently at 6.25%. The debt is guaranteed by the Company’s primary shareholder, who is also the CEO and Chairman of the Board, and his wife, who is the Executive Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer of the Company. 