Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You are encouraged to review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Our Business is Vulnerable to Changing Economic Conditions. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, or higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by a increase in interest rates causing an increase in interest expense. Our Laughlin Property is Vulnerable to Existing and New Competitors and Their Capital Investments. Recent acquisition by competitors of casino/hotel properties in Laughlin could produce unfavorable operating results if the investments by 6 Table of Contents competitors are successful in capturing market share from the Company’s Laughlin property. These new competitors may have greater capital resources and liquidity than the Company has. Liquidation of the Company’s Preferred Stock is Approximately $21.7 Million and is in Dispute. The Company has preferred shareholders with a liquidation preference of approximately $21.7 million. Additionally, a preferred shareholder of the Company has asserted that the dividends, which accrue semi-annually at a rate of 16% per annum, have been incorrectly calculated and the liquidation preference is substantially greater than $21.7 million. A preferred shareholder has filed a lawsuit and if the preferred shareholder’s claim is adjudicated unfavorably against the Company, the Company could be required to substantially increase its liquidation preference and future dividend accruals, accordingly. At September 30, 2006, the difference between the Company’s liquidation preference calculation and the amount asserted by the preferred shareholder is approximately $11.5 million. The Company plans to vigorously defend this lawsuit and has both procedural and substantive defenses and may have rights against other persons or parties related to the purported lawsuit. A Significant Decline in Real Estate Values may have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company owns real estate on the Las Vegas strip and on the East Coast of the United States. Although the Company is presently not dependent on cash flows from these properties, a significant decline in real estate values in these markets could have an impact on the Company’s ability to readily generate cash flow from the real estate to meet its debt, preferred stock or other obligations. Our Outstanding Debt Obligations Subject us to Additional Risks. Our outstanding mortgage debt obligation currently has matured and the Company is in the process of securing an extension of its mortgage obligation to January 2008. Our liquidity could be impacted if the bank elects not to renew; however, the bank has informed the Company that it does not plan on electing not to renew but rather plans to extend the mortgage obligation. Additionally, the Company also has outstanding indebtedness with certain entities. If the Company’s operating cash flow is not sufficient to meet obligations as required, the Company’s business operations and liquidity could be adversely impacted. Reversal of September 2006 Stock Option Exercises Due To Mistake. The Company received notice of the exercise of stock option grants from Mr. David Lowden and from Mr. Chris Lowden in September, 2006. The Company and Messrs. Lowden believed the grants to be of the type designated pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 422 (“Section 422”), commonly called qualified stock option grants (sometimes referred to as incentive stock options). Section 422 (and the underlying regulations and rules governing that Section) include complex provisions and involve several special rules and limitations. To exercise the purported incentive option grants, certain loans were made to the optionees which loans were documented in written form. Upon further review of the original basis for the grant and later exercise, it was subsequently determined by the Company and its advisors that the grants believed to be exercised as incentive stock option grants did not fully qualify for that special treatment and, actually, reverted to nonqualified stock option status as a result. As the timing and tax treatment for the exercise of qualified and non-qualified stock option grants is materially different, the exercise was recognized as being induced by a significant error in designating the options as qualified stock options and the exercise was fully reversed at the request of the optionees and the shares have been fully restored to the Company (with the corresponding optionee grants also being restored). The Company believes that it acted promptly to reverse the transaction after the true nature of the mistaken designation attributed to the option grants became known to it and the Company believes the exercise and subsequent reversal of the September 2006 exercises by Messrs. Lowden are each undertaken in good faith and in compliance with applicable tax laws, rules and regulations. As required by rules governing financial accounting, the Company has reserved sums it deems sufficient to pay any penalties or interest that may be due for the period of 2006 regarding the reversal of the option exercise should that reversal be determined to not comply with applicable tax laws, rules and regulations. 