Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are currently known and material risks. Other material risks may develop in the future; provided, however, as they remain unidentified they cannot be disclosed. You are encouraged to review the following discussion of specific known material risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Our Business is Vulnerable to Changing Economic Conditions. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, or higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by an increase in interest rates causing an increase in interest expense. Our Laughlin Property is Vulnerable to Existing and New Competitors and Their Capital Investments. Recent acquisition by competitors of casino/hotel properties in Laughlin could produce unfavorable operating results if the investments by competitors are successful in capturing market share from the Company’s Laughlin property. These new competitors may have greater capital resources and liquidity than the Company. Redemption of the Company’s Preferred Stock and Redemption Price Disputes. The Company called all outstanding shares of its Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock for redemption on and as of August 31, 2007, at a redemption price of $5.241 per share, which sum included accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of redemption. From and after August 31, 2007, all shares of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock ceased to be outstanding and to accrue dividends. As of February 2, 2010, the holders of 4,259,878 shares of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock have surrendered their shares and received payment of the redemption price; while 156,699 shares have yet to be surrendered and still have the right to receive their payment due without interest. On August 27, 2007, a group of institutional investors filed an action, in Nevada, against the registrant. The Complaint was subsequently amended to add an additional party plaintiff (collectively, the “Plaintiffs”). The Amended Complaint: (i) seeks a finding by the Court that the Company has breached its obligations under the Company’s Certificate of Designation of the Preferred Stock, dated September 30, 1993 (the “Certificate”), and awarding the Plaintiffs full compensation of any and all available damages suffered by the Plaintiffs as a result of the Company’s breach of the Certificate; (ii) seeks a finding by the Court that the Company’s issuance of its redemption notice with an improper redemption price is an anticipatory breach of a material term of the Certificate and awarding the Plaintiffs full compensation of any and all available damages suffered as a result of the Company’s anticipatory breach of the Certificate; (iii) seeks a declaration by the Court that the dividends be properly calculated and compounded per the terms of the Certificate in an amount no less than $7,235,351 up through and including the date of final judgment; (iv) seeks an order from the Court calling for the Company to reimburse the Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs incurred in enforcing their rights; and (v) seeks such other and further relief as the Court may deem appropriate. 7 Table of Contents The Plaintiffs, thereafter, filed a motion for partial summary judgment, seeking a ruling from the court that the Company breached its obligations under the Certificate of Designation by calculating the redemption price as it did. The Court granted that motion on August 8, 2008, finding the language of the Certificate of Designation to be unambiguous and that the redemption price should have been calculated differently. The Court has not yet issued a monetary judgment against the Company. Subsequent to the Court’s ruling on the motion for partial summary judgment, Plaintiffs filed a motion for entry of final judgment, seeking entry of judgment that the redemption price for the preferred shares should have been $8.69 per share. At the same time, the Company filed a request for certification asking the Court to certify its partial summary judgment order for immediate interlocutory appeal. The Court granted the request for certification and denied the request for entry of final judgment without prejudice. The Company filed a Petition for Permission to Appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and the Ninth Circuit declined to accept the matter for interlocutory review at this time. The Company has initiated proceedings against a third-party firm concerning that firm’s potential liability related to the drafting of the Certificate of Designation. This third-party action has subsequently been removed by the firm to Federal Court in April, 2009 and is at an early stage of resolution. The third-party has moved to compel arbitration of the dispute. The Magistrate Judge issued an order that the matter be referred to arbitration and the District Court confirmed that order. The Company intends to pursue its claims against the firm in arbitration. The Company is also considering rights and remedies it may have with regard to other parties who participated in the issuance of the Preferred Stock in the event that the Company does not prevail on its interpretation of the Certificate of Designation. Also, two other holders of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock filed Complaints, both alleging essentially the same claim as the first complaint related to the case set forth immediately above. If the plaintiffs in these two additional actions are correct, the redemption price as of August 31, 2007 should have been $8.69 per share and not $5.241 per share as calculated by the Company. If applied to all the then outstanding shares of Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock, including the shares held by the Company’s officers and directors, valuation of the redemption price at $8.69 per share would increase the redemption price in excess of $15.2 million. Management is unable to estimate the minimum liability that may be incurred, if any, as a result of the outcome of each of these matters and, therefore, has made no provision in the financial statements for liability related to these cases. A Significant Decline in Real Estate Values may have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company owns real estate on the Strip and on the East Coast of the United States. Although the Company is presently not dependent on cash flows from these properties, a significant decline in real estate values in these markets could have an impact on the Company’s ability to readily generate cash flow from the real estate. Our Outstanding Debt Obligations Subject us to Additional Risks. The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, SLVC, secured and maintains a $15.0 million line of credit loan granted by a Nevada bank. The loan and promissory note, secured by deed of trust on SLVC’s approximate 27 acre parcel of land on Las Vegas Boulevard South (the “Property”), are for a period of one year commencing November 15, 2009, and ending November 14, 2010. The line of credit loan is revolving and is subject to additional lending requirements. The line of credit loan is current and only partially utilized at this time. The initial advance under the line of credit loan was used to pay in full the previous line of credit loan secured by the Property. The SLVC line of credit loan is guaranteed by SLVC and the Company, as well as, personally guaranteed by Paul W. Lowden, President of SLVC, and Suzanne Lowden, Secretary/Treasurer of SLVC. 8 Table of Contents 