Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You are encouraged to review the following discussion of the specific risks and uncertainties that affect our business. These include, but are not limited to, the following: Our Business is Vulnerable to Changing Economic Conditions. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions including recession, economic slowdown, or higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by a increase in interest rates causing an increase in interest expense. Our Laughlin Property is Vulnerable to Existing and New Competitors and Their Capital Investments. Recent acquisition by competitors of casino/hotel properties in Laughlin could produce unfavorable operating results if the investments by competitors are successful in capturing market share from the Company’s Laughlin property. These new competitors may have greater capital resources and liquidity than the Company. Redemption of the Company’s Preferred Stock and Redemption Price Disputes. The Company called all outstanding shares of its Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock for redemption on and as of August 31, 2007, at a redemption price of $5.241 per share, which sum included accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of redemption. From and after August 31, 2007, all shares of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock ceased to be outstanding and to accrue dividends. On August 27, 2007, the following institutional investors: D. E. Shaw Laminar Portfolios, L.L.C., LC Capital Master Fund, Ltd, LC Capital/Capital Z SPV, LP, Magten Asset Management Corp, Mercury Real Estate Securities Fund LP, Mercury Real Estate Securities Offshore Fund Limited, Black Horse Capital LP, Black Horse Capital (QP) LP, Black Horse Capital Offshore Ltd, and Plainfield Special Situations Master Fund Limited filed an action against the registrant in the United States District Court for The District of Nevada entitled D.E. Shaw Laminar Portfolios, LLC; et al. v. Archon Corporation, 2:07-CV-01146-PMP-LRL (D. Nev.). The Complaint was subsequently amended to add an additional party plaintiff (collectively, the “Laminar Plaintiffs”). The Amended Complaint: (i) seeks a finding by the Court that the Company has breached its obligations under the Company’s Certificate of Designation of the Preferred Stock, dated September 30, 1993 (the “Certificate”), and awarding the Laminar Plaintiffs full compensation of any and all available damages suffered by the Laminar Plaintiffs as a result of the Company’s breach of the Certificate; (ii) seeks a finding by the Court that the Company’s issuance of its redemption notice with an improper redemption price is an anticipatory breach of a material term of the Certificate and awarding the Laminar Plaintiffs full compensation of any and all available damages suffered as a result of the Company’s anticipatory breach of the Certificate; (iii) seeks a declaration by the Court that the dividends be properly calculated and compounded per the terms of the Certificate in an amount no less than $7,235,351 up through and including the date of final judgment; (iv) seeks an order from the Court calling for the Company to reimburse the Laminar Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees, expenses and costs incurred in enforcing their rights; and (v) seeks such other and further relief as the Court may deem appropriate. In November 2007, and subsequent to the end of the Company’s fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, the Laminar Plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment on liability. The Company responded, and the parties will await a ruling from the Court following the Plaintiff’s filing of its reply brief. Also subsequent to the end of the Company’s fiscal year, two other former holders of the Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock filed Complaints in the United States District Court, District of Nevada, entitled Rainero v. Archon Corporation, District of Nevada Case No. 2:07-cv-01553 and Leeward Capital, L.P. v. Archon Corporation, District of Nevada Case No. 2:08-cv-00007, both alleging essentially the same claim as the first Complaint. If the plaintiffs are correct, the redemption price as of August 31, 2007 should have been $8.69 per share and not $5.241 per share as calculated by the Company which, if applied to all the then outstanding shares of Exchangeable Redeemable Preferred Stock, including the shares held by the Company’s officers and directors, would increase the redemption price in excess of $15.2 million. 7 Table of Contents A Significant Decline in Real Estate Values may have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Financial Condition. The Company owns real estate on the Strip and on the East Coast of the United States. Although the Company is presently not dependent on cash flows from these properties, a significant decline in real estate values in these markets could have an impact on the Company’s ability to readily generate cash flow from the real estate to meet its debt or other obligations. Our Outstanding Debt Obligations Subject us to Additional Risks. The Company has a mortgage note obligation which matured in late December 2006 with an extension until January 2008 in the approximate amount of $10.1 million. The Bank has informed the Company of its commitment to extend the maturity date of the note obligation to January 2009. The documentation process for the extension may go beyond the January 15, 2008, maturity, however, all original terms and conditions will remain in effect until the new loan documents are executed. Although the Company believes the bank’s commitment to extend the maturity date of the loan will be made formal in the near-term, it can not give any assurances that the extension will occur. However, the bank has informed the Company it intends to extend the maturity date to January 2009. 