Risk Factors in the Company’s Form 10-K for 2002, incorporated herein by reference. 4 Future Mergers or Sales Will Cause Dilution or Adversely Affect Results As part of the Company’s business strategy, the Company is seeking by merger or sale to acquire other operating businesses which perceive value in becoming a publicly traded corporation. The Company has no current agreements or commitments with respect to any merger or acquisition transactions and there can be no assurance that the Company will enter into any such agreements or commitments. In the event of such future transactions, the Company could (i) issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership in the Company or otherwise impact upon it, very substantially because the owners of the operating business will require full control of the Company or its subsidiary used in the transaction; (ii) could directly or in the spin-off subsidiary incur substantial debt; or (iii) assume contingent liabilities. Such actions could cause the Company’s operating results or the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. In addition, the Company or subsidiary may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that may thus be acquired or be part of the subsidiary in the future. The only certainty in any such transaction is that the shareholders of the Company will own only a minor portion of the operating business thus acquired, new management will operate such business and it will be an entirely different operation from that described in prior Forms10-K filed by SITI. The Company May Need to Obtain Additional Financing Management believes that current cash and cash equivalents may not be sufficient to meet the Company’s anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007. If shareholder Powers remains satisfied with the search for mergers or sales transactions described above, and now in process, he presently intends to invest the amounts necessary to continue such efforts in fiscal 2007. Market Listing; Volatility of Stock Price The Company’s common stock has been traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and there are approximately 3.5 million shares in the “public float” for trading purposes. The market for the Company’s common stock has been relatively illiquid and subject to wide fluctuations. There can be no assurance that an active public market for the common stock will develop or be sustained particularly with the Company’s future direction by merger or sale, with an as yet unknown operating business, remaining uncertain. Further, the market price of the Company’s common stock may be highly volatile based on quarterly variations in operating results, acquisitions by the Company, investment or other losses, announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or its competitors, or other events or factors. (See Item 5 below) 