Item 1A. Risk Factors: Risks relating to our business Increases in U.S. and European imports of Chinese or other foreign manufactured activated carbon could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We face pressure and competition in our U.S. and European markets from brokers of low cost imported activated carbon products, primarily from China. We believe we offer the market technically superior products and related customer support. However, in some applications, low cost imports have become accepted as viable alternatives to our products because they have been frequently sold at less than fair value in the market. If the markets in which we compete experience an increase in these imported low cost carbons, especially if sold at less than fair value, we could see declines in net sales. In addition, the sales of these low cost activated carbons may make it more difficult for us to pass through raw material price increases to our customers. In response to a petition from the U.S. activated carbon industry filed in March 2006, the United States Department of Commerce (the “DOC”) announced the imposition of anti-dumping duties starting in October 2006. The DOC announcement was based on extensive economic analysis of the operations and pricing practices of the Chinese producers and exporters. The DOC announcement required U.S. Customs and Border Protection to require importers of steam activated carbon from China to post a provisional bond or cash deposit in the amount of the duties. The anti-dumping duties are intended to offset the amount by which the steam activated carbon from China is sold at less than fair value in the U.S. In March 2007, the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) determined that these unfairly priced steam activated carbon imports from China caused material injury to the U.S. activated carbon industry. The affirmative decision by the ITC triggered the imposition of significant anti-dumping duties in the form of cash deposits, ranging from 62% to 228%. The anti-dumping duties will be imposed for at least five years but are subject to periodic review within the time frame. The first review period began in April 2008 and covered the tariff period from October 2006 through March 2008. The results of this review indicated that the estimated anti-dumping duties originally imposed for this period were too high and have been substantially reduced. Reviews of annual periods subsequent to this period will begin in April of the year following the twelve month period then completed. The significant anti-dumping duties originally imposed by the DOC and the affirmative decision by the ITC has had an adverse impact on the cost of Chinese manufactured activated carbon imported into the U.S. However, the anti-dumping duties, already substantially reduced by virtue of the DOC’s announced results for the first period of review, could be further reduced or eliminated in the future which could adversely affect demand or pricing of our product. Our financial results could be adversely affected by an interruption of supply or an increase in coal prices. We use bituminous coal as the main raw material in our granular activated carbon production process. We estimate that coal will represent approximately 65% of our carbon product costs in 2010. We have various annual and multi-year contracts in place for the supply of coal that expire at various intervals from 2010 to 2011. Interruptions in coal supply caused by mine accidents, labor disputes, transportation delays, breach of supplier contractual obligations, or other events for other than a temporary period could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand. Our inability to obtain high-quality coal at competitive prices in a timely manner due to changing market conditions with limited high-quality suppliers could also have an adverse affect on our financial results. In addition, increases in the prices we pay for coal under our supply contracts could adversely affect our financial results by significantly increasing production costs. During 2009, our aggregate costs for coal increased by $3.0 million, or 12.9%, compared to 2008. Based upon the estimated usage of coal in 2010, a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of coal would result in $2.0 million of additional pre-tax expenses to us. We may not be able to pass through raw material price increases to our customers. Delays in enactment of new state or federal regulations could restrict our ability to reach our strategic growth targets and lower our return on invested capital. Our strategic growth initiatives are reliant upon more restrictive environmental regulations being enacted for the purpose of making water and air cleaner and safer. If stricter regulations are delayed or are not enacted or enacted but subsequently repealed or amended to be less strict, or enacted with prolonged phase-in periods, our sales growth targets could be adversely affected and our return on invested capital could be reduced. 13 Table of Contents The Company had expected increased demand for powdered activated carbon products beginning in 2009 largely driven by the EPA’s Clean Air Mercury Rule, which established an emissions trading system to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants by approximately 70% over a 10 year period. On February 8, 2008, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. Additional appeals, litigation, and regulatory proceedings could defer implementation of another EPA mercury reduction regulation for years or indefinitely. Even if adoption of a new Clean Air Mercury Rule is delayed indefinitely by the legal legislative and regulatory process, existing federal and state laws and regulations, as well as state or federal legislation introduced in response to the Court of Appeals decision and new litigation, could result in substantially more stringent regulation, resulting in higher-than expected demand for the Company’s products. The Company is unable to predict with certainty when and how the outcome of these complex legal, regulatory and legislative proceedings will affect demand for its products. Encroachment into our markets by competitive technologies could adversely affect our financial results. Activated carbon is utilized in various applications as a cost-effective solution to solve customer problems. If other competitive technologies, such as membranes, ozone and UV, are advanced to the stage in which such technologies could cost effectively compete with activated carbon technologies, we could experience a decline in net sales, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to a number of global economic risks. Financial markets in the United States, Europe, and Asia continue to experience extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intending to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in values of certain assets. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Continued volatility and disruption of financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase our products or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volumes that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with competitors having greater resources than we do, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our activated carbon business faces significant competition principally from Norit N.V., Mead/Westvaco Corporation and Siemens Water Technologies, as well as from European and Chinese activated carbon producers and East Asian producers of coconut-based activated carbon. Our UV technology products face significant competition principally from Trojan Technologies, Inc., which is owned by Danaher Corporation, and Wedeco Ideal Horizons, which is owned by ITT Industries. Our competitors include major manufacturers and diversified companies, a number of which have revenues and capital resources exceeding ours, which they may use to develop more advanced or more cost-effective technologies, increase market share or leverage their distribution networks. We could experience reduced net sales as a result of having fewer resources than these competitors. Failure to innovate new products or applications could adversely affect our ability to meet our strategic growth targets. Part of our strategic growth and profitability plans involve the development of new products or new applications for our current products in order to replace more mature products or markets that have seen increased competition. If we are unable to develop new products or applications, our financial results could be adversely affected. Environmental compliance and remediation and potential climate change could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Our production facilities are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate or maintain properties. Costs may be incurred in complying with such laws and regulations. Each of our domestic production facilities require permits and licenses issued by local, state and federal regulators which regulate air emissions, water discharges, and solid waste handling. These permits are subject to renewal and, in some circumstances, revocation. International environmental requirements vary and could have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors a competitive advantage. Additional costs may be incurred if environmental remediation measures are required. In addition, the discovery of contamination at any of our current or former sites or at locations at which we dispose of waste may expose us to cleanup obligations and other damages. For example, the 14 Table of Contents Company has received Notices of Violations (“NOVs”) from the U.S. EPA and from the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection. While the Company is attempting to resolve these matters, an unfavorable result could have a significant adverse impact on its results of operations and cash flows. If we receive similar demands in the future, we may incur significant costs in connection with the resolution of those matters. Refer to Regulatory Matters within Item 1, Business for a more detailed discussion. In addition, there is currently vigorous debate over the effect of Co 2 gas releases and the effect on climate change. Many of our activities create Co 2 gases. Should legislation or regulation be enacted, it could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to expand our operations or perhaps continue to operate as we currently do. Our financial results could be adversely affected by shortages in energy supply or increases in energy costs. The price for and availability of energy resources could be volatile as it is affected by political and economic conditions that are outside our control. We utilize natural gas as a key component in our activated carbon manufacturing process and have annual and multi-year contracts for the supply of natural gas at each of our major facilities. If shortages of, or restrictions on the delivery of natural gas occur, production at our activated carbon facilities would be reduced, which could result in missed deliveries or lost sales. We also have exposure to fluctuations in energy costs as they relate to the transportation and distribution of our products. For example, natural gas prices have increased significantly in recent years. We may not be able to pass through natural gas and other fuel price increases to our customers. A planned or unplanned shutdown at one of our production facilities could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We operate multiple facilities and source product from strategic partners who operate facilities which are close to water or in areas susceptible to hurricanes and earthquakes. An unplanned shutdown at any of our or our strategic partners’ facilities for more than a temporary period as a result of a hurricane, typhoon, earthquake or other natural disaster, or as a result of fire, explosions, war, terrorist activities, political conflict or other hostilities, could significantly affect our ability to meet our demand requirements, thereby resulting in lost sales and profitability in the short-term or eventual loss of customers in the long-term. In addition, a prolonged planned shutdown of any of our production facilities due to a change in the business conditions could result in impairment charges that could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our inability to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements upon expiration of the existing agreements could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We have collective bargaining agreements in place at four production facilities covering approximately 30% of our full-time workforce as of December 31, 2009. Those collective bargaining agreements expire from 2011 through 2013. However, the agreement at the Company’s Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility expired on April 1, 2009. The parties are working under an extension of the expired agreement as they continue to negotiate terms and conditions of a multi-year replacement contract. Any work stoppages as a result of disagreements with any of the labor unions or our failure to renegotiate any of the contracts as they expire could disrupt production and significantly increase product costs as a result of less efficient operations caused by the resulting need to rely on temporary labor. Our pension plans are currently underfunded, and we expect to be subject to significant increases in pension contributions to our defined benefit pension plans, thereby restricting our cash flow. We sponsor various pension plans in the United States and Europe that are underfunded and require significant cash payments. We contributed $10.5 million and $4.1 million to our U.S. Pension plans and $1.8 million and $2.1 million to our European pension plans in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We currently expect to contribute approximately $1.6 million to our U.S. pension plans to meet minimum funding requirements and $1.8 million to our European pension plans in 2010. The current economic environment is negatively impacting the fair value of our pension assets which could result in increased funding requirements of our pension plans. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our worldwide pension liability, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or seek additional capital. The funding status of our pension plans is determined using many assumptions, such as inflation, investment rates, mortality, turnover and interest rates, any of which could prove to be different than projected. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, or not realized, we may be required to contribute more to our pension plans than we currently expect. For example, an approximate 25-basis point decline in the funding target interest rate under Section 730 of the Internal Revenue Code, as 15 Table of Contents added by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 for minimum funding requirements, would increase our minimum required contributions to our U.S. pension plans by approximately $0.8 million to $1.1 million over the next three years. Our pension plans in the aggregate are underfunded by approximately $36 million as of December 31, 2009 (based on the actuarial assumptions used for Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715 “Compensation — Retirement Benefits,” purposes and comparing our projected benefit obligation to the fair value of plan assets) and required a certain level of mandatory contributions as prescribed by law. Our U.S. pension plans, which were underfunded by approximately $21 million as of December 31, 2009, are subject to ERISA. In the event our U.S. pension plans are terminated for any reason while the plans are less than fully funded, we will incur a liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding at the time of the termination. In addition, changes in required pension funding rules that were affected by the enactment of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 have significantly increased our funding requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and require us to reduce or delay our capital expenditures or seek additional capital. Refer to Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our international operations expose us to political and economic uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We have manufacturing facilities and sales offices in Europe, China, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Brazil, Mexico, Canada, and the United Kingdom which are subject to economic conditions and political factors within the respective countries which, if changed in a manner adverse to us, could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political risk factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, foreign exchange restrictions, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Approximately 86% of our sales in 2009 were generated by products sold in the U.S., Canada, and Western Europe while the remaining sales were generated in other areas of the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America. Our European and Japanese activated carbon businesses are sourced from both the United States and China, which subjects these businesses to foreign exchange transaction risk. Our only production facilities for virgin granular activated carbon are in the United States and China. Those production facilities are used in supplying our global demand for virgin granular activated carbon. All of our foreign operations purchase from the U.S. and China operations in U.S. dollars yet sell in local currency, resulting in foreign exchange transaction risk. We generally execute foreign currency derivative contracts of not more than eighteen months in duration to cover a portion of our known or projected foreign currency exposure. However, those contracts do not protect us from longer-term trends of a strengthening U.S. dollar, which could significantly increase our cost of activated carbon delivered to our European and Japanese markets, and we may not be able to offset these costs by increasing our prices. We have operations in multiple foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to foreign exchange translation risk, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We conduct significant business operations in several foreign countries. Of our 2009 net sales, approximately 42% were sales to countries other than the United States, and 2009 net sales denominated in non-U.S. dollars represented approximately 30% of our overall net sales. We conduct business in the local currencies of each of our foreign subsidiaries or affiliates. Those local currencies are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, could significantly reduce our sales and profitability from foreign subsidiaries or affiliates from one period to the next as local currency amounts are translated into fewer U.S. dollars. Our business includes capital equipment sales which could have extreme fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of that type of business. Our Equipment segment represented approximately 11% of our 2009 net sales. This business generally has a long project life cycle from bid solicitation to project completion and often requires customers to make large capital commitments well in advance of project execution. In addition, this business is usually affected by the general health of the overall economy. As a result, sales and earnings from the Equipment segment could be volatile. 16 Table of Contents Declines in the operating performance of one of our business segments could result in an impairment of the segment’s goodwill. As of December 31, 2009, we had consolidated goodwill of approximately $26.9 million recorded in our business segments, primarily from our Activated Carbon and Service and Equipment segments. We test our goodwill on an annual basis or when an indication of possible impairment exists in order to determine whether the carrying value of our assets is still supported by the fair value of the underlying business. To the extent that it is not, we are required to record an impairment charge to reduce the asset to fair value. A decline in the operating performance of any of our business segments could result in a goodwill impairment charge which could have a material effect on our financial results. Our required capital expenditures may exceed estimates. Our capital expenditures were $48.3 million in 2009. Future capital expenditures may be significantly higher and may vary substantially if we are required to undertake certain actions to comply with new regulatory requirements or compete with new technologies. We may not have the capital to undertake the capital investments. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to effectively compete. Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks for conducting business in corrupt environments. Although a portion of our international business is currently in regions where the risk level and established legal systems in many cases are similar to that in the United States, we also conduct business in developing countries, and we are focusing on increasing our sales in regions such as South America, Southeast Asia, India and the Middle East, which are less developed, have less stability in legal systems and financial markets, and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments than the United States and therefore, present greater political, economic and operational risks. We emphasize compliance with the law and have policies in place, procedures and certain ongoing training of employees with regard to business ethics and key legal requirements such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”); however, there can be no assurances that our employees will adhere to our code of business conduct, other Company policies or the FCPA. If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly or maintain internal accounting practices to accurately record our international transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. We could incur significant costs for investigation, litigation, fees, settlements and judgments for potential violations of the FCPA or other laws or regulations which, in turn, could negatively affect our results of operations. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, our products may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim. If we were to discover or be notified that our products potentially infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. We could find it difficult to fund the capital needed to complete our growth strategy. Our current credit facility requires compliance with various affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations with respect to our ability to pay dividends, make loans, incur indebtedness, grant liens on our property, engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets and engage in certain transactions with our affiliates. As a result, these restrictions may prevent us from being able to borrow sufficient funds under our current credit facility to meet our future capital needs and alternate financing on terms acceptable to us may not be available. If our liquidity would remain constrained for more than a temporary period, we may need to either delay certain strategic growth projects or access higher cost capital markets in order to fund our projects, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to utilize our foreign tax credits and net operating losses may be limited. As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $40.4 million for state income tax purposes. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership 17 Table of Contents change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We could experience an ownership change in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs existing at the time could be limited. At December 31, 2009, we had $10.2 million of foreign tax credit carryforwards for which we have established a valuation reserve of $3.4 million. If some or all of these tax credits expire, they will not be available to offset our tax liability. Our stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of our Company. Our stockholder rights plan and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These include provisions: • providing for a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • requiring super-majority voting to affect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting the persons who may call special stockholders’ meetings; • limiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings; and • allowing our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock, or could limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 18 Table of Contents 