Item 1A. Risk Factors Our Company is subject to a number of risks that could affect our future financial results. Some of these risks are discussed below. (See also “Critical accounting policies and estimates” beginning on page 3,” and “Factors That May Affect Future Financial Results,” beginning on page 19 in our 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders).” Readers and prospective investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of these risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We have had a history of losses, and we may not sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have incurred losses in many of our fiscal years since inception. For the last four fiscal years we have continuously incurred losses. In fiscal 2006, we incurred a loss of $2.3 million. As of March 31, 2006 we have an accumulated deficit of $416.0 million. We may not sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Competition could harm our ability to maintain or improve our position in the market and could decrease our revenues. The wireless interconnection and access business is a specialized segment of the wireless telecommunications industry and is extremely competitive. We expect competition in this segment to increase. Some of our competitors have more extensive engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities and significantly greater financial, technical, and personnel resources than we have. In addition, some of our competitors have greater name recognition, broader product lines, a larger installed base of products and longer-standing customer relationships. Our competitors include established companies, such as Alcatel, L.M. Ericsson, the Microwave Communications division of Harris Corporation, NEC, Nera Telecommunications, Nokia, Ceragon Networks and Siemens AG, as well as a number of smaller public companies and private companies in selected markets. Some of our competitors are also base station suppliers through whom we market and sell our products. One or more of our largest customers could internally develop the capability to manufacture products similar to those manufactured or outsourced by us and, as a result, their demand for our products and services may decrease. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with many entities that have substantially greater resources than we have. Furthermore, any acquisition we contemplate and subsequently complete may encourage certain of our competitors to enter into additional business combinations, to accelerate product development, or to engage in aggressive price reductions or other competitive practices, resulting in even more powerful or aggressive competitors. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including price, quality, availability, customer service and support, breadth of product line, product performance and features, rapid time-to-market delivery capabilities, reliability, timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors, the ability of our customers to obtain financing, and uncertainty of 11 Table of Contents regional socio- and geopolitical factors. We cannot give assurances that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution, customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully. Our average sales prices are declining. Currently, manufacturers of digital microwave telecommunications equipment are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, declining sales prices. This price pressure has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, downward pricing pressure on our products. As a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, declining average sales prices for our products. Our future profitability is dependent upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new lower cost products and product enhancements. If we are unable to respond to increased price competition this will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since our customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we must often commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. As a result, current or future price reduction commitments could, and any inability by us to respond to increased price competition would, harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully market our newest product, Eclipse, our business would be harmed. In January 2004, we began commercial shipments of our product Eclipse. Eclipse is a wireless platform consisting of an Intelligent Node Unit and Outdoor Units. The platform utilizes a nodal architecture and combines multiplexing, routing and cross-connection functions with low to high capacity wireless transmission into a single system. To a large extent, our future profitability depends on the continued success and price competitiveness of Eclipse. We began to market the Eclipse product in 2003 and recorded our first sales in January 2004. In fiscal 2005, we recorded $39.6 million of revenue from sales of Eclipse products. In fiscal 2006, we recorded $134.5 million of revenue from sales of Eclipse products. Because Eclipse represents a new innovative solution for wireless carriers, we cannot give assurances that we will be able to continue to successfully market this product. If Eclipse does not achieve market acceptance to the extent expected by us, we may not be able to recoup the significant amount of research and development expenses associated with the development and introduction of this product and our business could be negatively impacted. Should the continued ramp up of the Eclipse product be unsuccessful, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant amount of our revenues comes from a few customers, the termination of any of these customer relationships may harm our business. Sales of our products are concentrated in a small number of customers. The following table summarizes the number of our significant customers, each of whom accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for the period indicated, along with the percentage of revenues they individually represent. Years Ended March 31, 2006 2005 Number of significant customers 1 1 Percentage of net sales 10 % 21 % The worldwide telecommunications industry is dominated by a small number of large corporations, and we expect that a significant portion of our future product sales will continue to be concentrated in a limited number of customers. In addition, our customers typically are not contractually obligated to purchase any quantity of products in any particular period, and product sales to major customers have varied widely from period to period. The loss of any existing customer, a significant reduction in the level of sales to any existing customer, or our inability to gain additional customers could result in declines in our revenues. If these revenue declines occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed. 12 Table of Contents We may be subject to litigation regarding intellectual property associated with our wireless business and this could be costly to defend and resolve, and could prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Such litigation or claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the licensing of allegedly infringing technology or the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot give assurances that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition, competitive position and prospects. Due to the significant volume of our international sales, we are susceptible to a number of political, economic and geographic risks that could harm our business. We are highly dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. In fiscal 2006 sales to international customers accounted for 95% of the total net sales. During fiscal 2005 and 2004, sales to international customers accounted for 94% and 96% of our net sales, respectively. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales to the Middle East/Africa region accounted for approximately 28%, 25% and 33% of our net sales, respectively. Also, significant portions of our international sales are in lesser developed countries. We expect that international sales will continue to account for the majority of our net product sales for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic event that adversely affects our business could result in significant revenue shortfalls. These revenue shortfalls could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed. Some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; • war and acts of terrorism; • natural disasters; • currency exchange controls; and • changes in export regulations. If we fail to develop and maintain distribution and licensing relationships, our revenues may decrease. Although a majority of sales are through our direct sales force, we also market our products through indirect sales channels such as independent agents, distributors, and telecommunication integrators. In addition, we recently entered into a licensing agreement with Alcatel, whereby Alcatel private labels a portion of our Eclipse product line and pays us a license fee based on the value of equipment purchased from our subcontract manufacturers. These relationships enhance our ability to pursue the limited number of major contract awards each year and, in some cases, are intended to provide our customers with easier access to financing and to integrated systems providers with a variety of equipment and service capabilities. We may not be able to continue to maintain and develop additional 13 Table of Contents relationships or, if additional relationships are developed, they may not be successful. Our inability to establish or maintain these distribution and licensing relationships could restrict our ability to market our products and thereby result in significant reductions in revenue. If these revenue reductions occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Our industry is volatile and subject to frequent changes, and we may not be able to respond effectively or in a timely manner to these changes. We participate in a highly volatile industry that is characterized by vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. These factors could result in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition both from start-up companies and from well-capitalized telecommunication systems providers, which, in turn, could decrease our revenues. In response to changes in our industry and market conditions, we may restructure our activities to more strategically realign our resources. This includes assessing whether we should consider disposing of, or otherwise exiting, businesses and reviewing the recoverability of our tangible and intangible assets. Any decision to limit investment in our tangible and intangible assets or to dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of accrued liabilities for special charges, such as workforce reduction costs. Additionally, accounting estimates with respect to the useful life and ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets could change as a result of such assessments and decisions, and could harm our results of operations. The inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver materials, could cause our products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner, or not at all. Our manufacturing operations, which have been substantially subcontracted, are highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers in a timely manner. Also, we depend in part upon subcontractors to assemble major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner. We do not generally enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with any of our suppliers, and we cannot provide assurances that such materials, components and subsystems will be available to us at such time and in such quantities as we require, if at all. Our inability to develop alternative sources of supply quickly and on a cost-effective basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture and timely deliver our products to our customers. We cannot give assurances that we will not experience material supply problems or component or subsystem delays in the future. Also, our subcontractors may not be able to maintain the quality of our products, which might result in a large number of product returns by customers and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The anticipated increase in volume due to the licensing agreement entered into with Alcatel could increase the risk of the inability of our subcontractors to manufacture and timely deliver our products to our customers. Additional risks associated with the outsourcing of our manufacturing operations to Microelectronics Technology, Inc. in Taiwan and their subsidiary in the People’s Republic of China could include, among other things: (i) political risks due to political issues between Taiwan and The People’s Republic of China, (ii) risk of natural disasters in Taiwan, such as earthquakes and typhoons, (iii) economic and regulatory developments, and (iv) other events leading to the disruption of manufacturing operations. Consolidation within the telecommunications industry and among suppliers could decrease our revenues. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Some operators in this industry have experienced financial difficulty and have filed, or may file, for bankruptcy protection. Other operators may merge and one or more of our competitors may supply products to such companies that have merged or will merge. This consolidation could result in purchasing decision delays by the merged companies and decreased opportunities for us to supply our products to the merged companies. We may also see consolidation among suppliers, which may further decrease our opportunity to market and sell our products. 14 Table of Contents Our success depends on new product introductions and acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend, in part, on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products and enhancements that address evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. We believe successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product, and are reluctant to switch thereafter. We spend significant resources on internal research and development to support our effort to develop and introduce new products and enhancements. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, we could fail to obtain an adequate return on these investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which would be difficult or impossible to regain. An inability, for technological or other reasons, to develop successfully and introduce new products quickly or on a cost-effective basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise materially damage our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past we have experienced, and we are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of products and enhancements. We cannot provide assurances that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of technological advances, or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance before our competitors offer products with performance, features and quality similar to or better than our products. Our revenues and earnings may suffer if we invest in developing and marketing technologies and technology standards that do not function as expected, are not adopted in the industry or are not accepted in the market within the time frame we expect or at all. Our customers may not pay us in a timely manner, or at all, which would decrease our income and utilize our working capital. Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by customers are a major consideration in our business. Our accounts receivable balance is also concentrated among a few customers, increasing our credit risk. The following table summarizes the number of our significant customers, each of whom accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable at the end of the period indicated, along with the percentage of accounts receivable they individually represent. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of the accounts receivable balance at the end of the periods indicated. March 31, March 31, 2006 2005 Number of significant customers 2 — Percentage of accounts receivable balance 12%, 10% — We generally require no collateral, although sales to Asia, Africa and the Middle East are often paid through letters of credit. Our credit procedures and policies may not adequately mitigate customer credit risk. We will need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may not be able to continue to operate our business pursuant to our business plan or we may have to discontinue our operations. During fiscal 2005 and the fiscal 2006, we used a significant amount of cash. This use of cash was primarily because of an increase in working capital requirements and net losses from operations. We expect cash usage to increase due to an increase in working capital requirements. As a result of cash requirements, we may need significant additional financing, which we may seek to raise through, among other things, public and private equity offerings and debt financing. In May 2005, we entered into an amendment to the existing Credit Facility Agreement we had with a commercial bank which expanded the amount of credit available under the facility and extended it to April 2007. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we amended the Credit Facility Agreement again and increased the amount of our credit facility with the bank from $35 million to $50 million and extended the facility for an additional one year term to April 30, 2008. Per the amended agreement, the total amount of revolving credit available was expanded to $50 million less the outstanding balance of the term debt portion and any usage under the revolving credit portion. As of March 2006, the balance of the long-term debt portion of our credit facility was 15 Table of Contents $33.5 million and there were $5.8 million outstanding standby letters of credit as of that date which are defined as usage under the revolving credit portion of the facility. There were no other outstanding balances under the short term debt portion of the facility as of March 31, 2006. As the long-term debt portion is repaid, additional credit will be available under the revolving credit portion of the facility. We currently anticipate that our available cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2006, and the available credit under our $50 million credit facility as described above, should be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures through the next 12 months. However, if changes occur that would consume available capital resources significantly sooner than we expect, if there is any significant negative impact resulting from continued losses or poor collection performance, if we are unable to raise sufficient funds in the required time frame on commercially reasonable terms, or we are unable to liquidate other current assets, our working capital may not be sufficient to support our anticipated needs for working capital and capital expenditures through the next 12 months and we may not be able to continue to operate our business pursuant to our business plan or we may have to discontinue our operations. We may breach our covenants relating to our outstanding debt against our $50 million revolving credit facility with a commercial bank resulting in a secured creditor claim action against us by the bank and the inability to obtain future borrowings. In the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we borrowed $25 million on a long-term basis, against our $35 million revolving credit facility with a commercial bank. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, we increased the amount of our credit facility with the bank from $35 million to $50 million and extended the facility for a further one year term to April 30, 2008. On March 1, 2006, we drew down an additional $20 million on a four year term basis under the facility. As part of the credit facility agreement, we have to maintain, as measured at the last day of each fiscal quarter, tangible net worth of at least $54 million plus (1) 25% of net income, as determined in accordance with GAAP (exclusive of losses) and (2) 50% of any increase to net worth due to subordinated debt or net equity proceeds from either public or private offerings (exclusive of issuances of stock under our employee benefit plans) for such quarter and all preceding quarters since December 31, 2005. We also have to maintain, as measured at the last day of each fiscal month, a ratio of (1) total unrestricted cash and cash equivalents plus short-term and long-term marketable securities plus 25% of all accounts receivable due to us minus certain outstanding bank services and reserve for foreign currency contract transactions divided by (2) the aggregate amount of outstanding borrowings and other obligations to the bank, of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 for each month end through May 31, 2006 and 1.25 to 1.00 thereafter. As of March 31, 2006 we were in compliance with these financial covenants of the loan. We may be in breach of these covenants in future quarters which will make the outstanding debt due to the bank immediately. We may not have the cash to pay off the outstanding debt immediately, resulting in a secured creditor legal action against us. Also, if we breach the agreement, we will no longer be able to borrow under the agreement. Any such breach will likely affect our credit rating and make it less likely that other lenders will be willing to lend to us. Negative changes in the capital markets available for telecommunications and mobile cellular projects may result in reduced revenues and excess inventory, that we cannot sell or may be required to sell at distressed prices, and may result in longer credit terms to our customers. Many of our current and potential customers require significant capital funding to finance their telecommunications and mobile cellular projects, which include the purchase of our products and services. Although in the last year we have seen some growth in capital spending in the wireless telecommunications market, changes in capital markets worldwide could negatively impact available funding for these projects and may continue to be unavailable to some customers. As a result, the purchase of our products and services may be slowed or halted. Reduction in demand for our products has resulted in excess inventories on hand in the past, and could result in additional excess inventories in the future. If funding is unavailable to our customers or their customers, we may be forced to write down excess inventory. In addition, we may have to extend more and longer credit terms to our customers, which could negatively impact our cash and possibly result in higher bad debt expense. We cannot give assurances that we will be successful in matching our inventory purchases with anticipated shipment volumes. As a result, we may fail to control the amount of inventory on hand and may be forced to write-off additional amounts. Such additional inventory write-offs, if required, would decrease our profits. 16 Table of Contents In addition, in order to maintain competitiveness in an environment of restrictive third party financing, we may have to offer customer financing that is recorded on our balance sheet. This may result in deferred revenue recognition, additional credit risk and substantial cash usage. If we fail to manage our internal development or successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not effectively manage our growth and our business may be harmed. Future growth of our operations depends, in part, on our ability to introduce new products and develop enhancements to existing products to meet the emerging trends in our industry. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development, minority investments and acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies. For example, on October 3, 2003, we completed the acquisition of the net assets of Plessey Broadband Wireless, a division of Tellumat (Pty) Ltd. Through this acquisition, we obtained a license-exempt telecommunications product line. We are unable to predict whether and when any other prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any other acquisition will be completed and successfully integrated. Once integrated, acquired businesses may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity to our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. Also, acquisitions may involve difficulties in the retention of personnel, diversion of management’s attention, risks of our customers and the customers of acquired businesses deferring purchase decisions as they evaluate the impact of the acquisition, unexpected legal liabilities and tax and accounting issues. Our failure to manage growth effectively could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unpredictability of our quarter-to-quarter results may harm the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, any of which may harm our business. These factors include: • volume and timing of product orders received and delivered during the quarter; • our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes on demand as needed; • suppliers inability to perform and timely deliver as a result of their financial condition, component shortages or other supply chain constraints; • continued market expansion through strategic alliances; • continued timely rollout of Eclipse functionality and features; • increased competition resulting in downward pressures on the price of the Company’s products and services; • unexpected delays in the schedule for shipments of Eclipse and new generations of the Eclipse platform; • failure to realize expected cost improvement throughout the Company’s supply chain; • order cancellations or postponements in product deliveries resulting in delayed revenue recognition. • war and acts of terrorism; • natural disasters; • ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • regulatory developments including denial of export and import licenses; and • general economic conditions worldwide. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and delays in product delivery or closing of a sale can cause revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. In addition, we may increase spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future or that if profitability is attained, that we will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. 17 Table of Contents Acts of terrorism can negatively impact revenues. The U.S. war in Iraq and the general socio- and geopolitical conditions in the Middle East, have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the economy in general. This could impact our current and future business in the Middle East and could result in our customers delaying or canceling the purchase of our products, which would have a significant negative impact on our revenues. However, the redevelopment of these regions has provided us with sales opportunities recently and may continue to provide sales opportunities in future periods. Because of intense competition for highly skilled candidates, we may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key personnel and executive officers, including Tom Waechter, who currently serves as our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Charles D. Kissner, who currently serves as our Executive Chairman. The loss of any key personnel could harm our business. Our prospects depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. The failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and deter our ability to expand. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may be deprived of legal recourse against those who misappropriate our intellectual property. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the United States and internationally. We currently rely upon a combination of trade secrets, trademarks, patents and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot give assurances that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third party development of similar technologies. In the event that such intellectual property arrangements are insufficient, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We have significant operations in the United States, United Kingdom and New Zealand, and outsourcing arrangements in Asia. We cannot provide assurances that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the protection and remedies available under United States law. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. If sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, and we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation by United States and foreign laws and international treaties. Generally, our products must conform to a variety of United States and international requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of such products. In addition, we are affected by the allocation and auction of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities both in the United States and internationally. Such governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the unavailability of frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, to operate in a jurisdiction, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products. Each jurisdiction in which we market our products has its own regulations governing radio communications. Products that support emerging wireless telecommunications services can be marketed in a jurisdiction only if permitted by suitable frequency allocations, auctions and regulations. The process of establishing new regulations is complex and lengthy. If we are unable to obtain sufficient 18 Table of Contents allocation of radio frequency spectrum by the appropriate governmental authority or obtain the proper regulatory approval for our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. We may not successfully adapt to regulatory changes in our industry, which could significantly impact the operation of our business. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. Regulatory changes, which are affected by political, economic and technical factors, could significantly impact our operations by restricting development efforts by us and our customers, making current products and systems in the industry obsolete or increasing the opportunity for additional competition. Any such regulatory changes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. It may be necessary or advisable in the future to modify our products to operate in compliance with such regulations. Such modifications could be extremely expensive and time-consuming to complete. Our stock price may be volatile, which may lead to losses by investors. Announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the telecommunications industry in which we compete, or the economies of the countries in which we do business and other factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These factors and fluctuations could lower the market price of our common stock. Our stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq National Market. If our bid price were to remain below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, Nasdaq could notify us of our failure to meet the continued listing standards, after which we would have 180 calendar days to correct such failure or be delisted . Changes in Accounting Standards for Share-Based Payments will reduce our future profitability. Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS 123(R)), we will be required to recognize, beginning in our first quarter of fiscal 2007, compensation expense in our statement of operations for the fair value of unvested employee stock options at the date of adoption, and new stock options granted to our employees after the adoption date, over the related vesting periods of the stock options. The requirement to expense stock options granted to employees reduces the attractiveness of granting stock options because the expense associated with these grants may adversely affect our profitability. However, stock options remain an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program following the adoption of SFAS 123(R). We may decide to replace our stock option programs with other compensation arrangements, but those are also likely to negatively impact profitability. Our employees are critical to our ability to develop and design systems that advance our productivity and competitive technology, increase our sales and provide support to customers. Accordingly, as a result of the requirement under SFAS 123(R) to recognize the fair value of stock based compensation as compensation expense, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, our future profitability will be reduced. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be misstated, our reputation may be harmed and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. As described in Management’s Annual Report for fiscal year 2005 on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, the Company determined that two significant deficiencies in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting were considered to be “material weaknesses” as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). In general, a “material weakness” (as defined in PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2) is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in 19 Table of Contents the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In fiscal 2006, we devoted significant resources to remediate and improve our internal controls related to these material weaknesses. We believe that these efforts have remediated the concerns that gave rise to the “material weakness” related to revenue recognition. However, due to the assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting as of March 31, 2006, we have identified the continuation of a material weakness in the review of the financial statements of foreign operations and the period-end financial close and reporting process for the Company’s consolidated operations. We will continue reviewing our internal controls over the financial close and reporting process, and will implement additional controls as needed. However, we cannot be certain that our controls over our financial processes and reporting will be adequate in the future. Any failure to adequately maintain internal controls over financial reporting could cause us prepare inaccurate financial statements, subject us to a misappropriation of assets or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. 