Item 1A. Risk Factors: Risks relating to our business Our pension plans are currently underfunded, and we expect to be subject to significant increases in pension contributions to our defined benefit pension plans, thereby restricting our cash flow. We sponsor various pension plans in the United States and Europe that are underfunded and require significant cash payments. We contributed $5.4 million and $9.2 million to our U.S. Pension plans and $2.4 million and $2.2 million to our European pension plans in 2007 and 2006, respectively. We currently expect to contribute approximately $3.7 million to our U.S. pension plans and $2.5 million to our European pension plans in 2008. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our worldwide pension liability, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. The funding status of our pension plans is determined using many assumptions, such as inflation, investment rates, mortality, turnover and interest rates, any of which could prove to be different than projected. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations, or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, or not realized, we may be required to contribute more to our pension plans than we currently expect. For example, an approximate 25-basis point decline in the funding target interest rate under Section 730 of the Internal Revenue Code, as added by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 for minimum funding requirements, would increase our minimum required contributions to our U.S. pension plans by approximately $1.0 million to $1.5 million over the next three years. Our pension plans in the aggregate are underfunded by approximately $24 million as of December 31, 2007 (based on the actuarial assumptions used for SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” purposes and comparing our projected benefit obligation to the fair value of plan assets) and required a certain level of mandatory contributions as prescribed by law. Our U.S. pension plans, which were underfunded by approximately $11 million as of December 31, 2007, are subject to ERISA. In the event our U.S. pension plans are terminated for any reason while the plans are less than fully funded, we will incur a liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding at the time of the termination. In addition, changes in required pension funding rules that were affected by the enactment of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 will significantly increase our funding requirements beginning in 2008, which will have an adverse effect on our cash flow and could require us to reduce or delay our capital expenditures, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 18 Our financial results could be adversely affected by an interruption of supply or an increase in coal prices. We use bituminous coal as the main raw material in our granular activated carbon production process. We estimate that coal will represent approximately 38% of our carbon product costs in 2008. We have various annual and multi-year contracts in place for the supply of coal that expire at various intervals from 2008 to 2011. Interruptions in coal supply caused by mine accidents, labor disputes, transportation delays, breach of supplier contractual obligations, or other events for other than a temporary period could have an adverse effect on our being able to meet our customer demand. In addition, increases in the prices we pay for coal under our supply contracts could adversely affect our financial results by significantly increasing production costs. During 2007, our aggregate costs for coal increased by $1.3 million, or 8.4%, compared to 2006. Based upon the estimated usage of coal in 2008, a hypothetical 10% increase in the price of coal would result in $1.2 million of additional pre-tax expenses to us. We may not be able to pass through raw materials price increases to our customers Our financial results could be adversely affected by shortages in energy supply or increases in energy costs. The price for and availability of energy resources could be volatile as it is affected by political and economic conditions that are outside our control. We utilize natural gas as a key component in our activated carbon manufacturing process and have annual and multi-year contracts for the supply of natural gas at each of our major facilities. If shortages of or restrictions on the delivery of natural gas occur, production at our activated carbon facilities would be reduced, which could result in missed deliveries or lost sales. We also have exposure to fluctuations in energy costs as they relate to the transportation and distribution of our products. For example, natural gas prices have increased significantly in recent years. We may not be able to pass through natural gas and other fuel price increases to our customers. Increases in U.S. and European imports of Chinese or other foreign manufactured activated carbon could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We face pressure and competition in our U.S. and European markets from brokers of low cost imported activated carbon products, primarily from China. We believe we offer the market technically superior products and related customer support. However in some applications, low cost imports have become accepted as viable alternatives to our products because they have been frequently sold at less than fair value in the market. If the markets in which we compete experience an increase in these imported low cost carbons, especially if sold at less than fair value, we could see declines in net sales. In addition, the sales of these low cost activated carbons may make it more difficult for us to pass through raw material price increases to our customers. 19 In response to a petition from the U.S. activated carbon industry filed in March 2006, the United States Department of Commerce (the “DOC”) announced the imposition of anti-dumping duties starting in October 2006. The DOC announcement was based on extensive economic analysis of the operations and pricing practices of the Chinese producers and exporters. The DOC announcement required U.S. Customs and Border Protection to require importers of steam activated carbon from China to post a provisional bond or cash deposit in the amount of the duties. The anti-dumping duties are intended to offset the amount by which the steam activated carbon from China is sold at less than fair value in the U.S. In March 2007, the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) determined that these unfairly priced steam activated carbon imports from China caused material injury to the U.S. activated carbon industry. This affirmative decision by the ITC triggered the imposition of significant anti-dumping duties in the form of cash deposits, ranging from 62 % to 228 %. The anti-dumping duties will be imposed for at least five years but are subject to periodic review within that time frame. The first review period begins April 2008. The significant anti-dumping duties imposed by the DOC and the affirmative decision by the ITC has had an adverse impact on the cost of Chinese manufactured activated carbon imported into the U.S. However, the anti-dumping duties could be reduced or eliminated in the future, which could adversely affect demand or pricing for our product. Our inability to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements upon expiration of the existing agreements could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We have collective bargaining agreements in place at four of our production facilities covering approximately 32% of our full-time workforce as of December 31, 2007. Those collective bargaining agreements expire from 2008 through 2010. Any work stoppages as a result of disagreements with any of the labor unions or our failure to renegotiate any of the contracts as they expire could disrupt production and significantly increase product costs as a result of less efficient operations caused by the resulting need to rely on temporary labor. For example, our contract with the United Steelworkers for the Company’s Neville Island plant located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania terminated on February 29, 2008 following two extensions of the expiring agreement. The Company is operating this facility with its salaried employees and temporary replacement workers until a new agreement is reached. We have operations in multiple foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to foreign exchange translation risk, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We conduct significant business operations in several foreign countries. Of our 2007 net sales, approximately 45% were sales to countries other than the United States, and 2007 net sales denominated in non-U.S. dollars represented approximately 34% of our overall net sales. We conduct business in the local currencies of each of our foreign subsidiaries or affiliates. Those local currencies are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, could significantly reduce our sales and profitability from foreign subsidiaries or affiliates from one period to the next as local currency amounts are translated into fewer U.S. dollars. 20 Our European and Japanese activated carbon businesses are sourced from both the United States and China, which subjects these businesses to foreign exchange transaction risk. Our only production facilities for virgin granular activated carbon are in the United States and China. Those production facilities are used to supply all of our global demand for virgin granular activated carbon. All of our foreign operations purchase from the U.S. and China operations in U.S. dollars yet sell in local currency, resulting in foreign exchange transaction risk. We generally execute foreign currency derivative contracts of not more than one year in duration to cover a portion of our known or projected foreign currency exposure. However, those contracts do not protect us from longer term-trends of a strengthening U.S. dollar, which could significantly increase our cost of activated carbon delivered to our European and Japanese markets, and we may not be able to offset these costs by increasing our prices. Our business includes capital equipment sales which could have extreme fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of that type of business. Our Equipment segment represented approximately 12% of our 2007 net sales. This business generally has a long project life cycle from bid solicitation to project completion and often requires customers to make large capital commitments well in advance of project execution. In addition, this business is usually affected by the general health of the overall economy. As a result, sales and earnings from the Equipment segment could be volatile. We could find it difficult to fund the capital needed to complete our growth strategy due to borrowing restrictions under our current credit facility. We are extended credit under our current credit facility subject to compliance with certain financial covenants. For example, our current credit facility contains various affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on us with respect to our ability to pay dividends, make loans, incur indebtedness, grant liens on our property, engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets and engage in certain transactions with our affiliates. Borrowing availability under our current credit facility is based on the value, from time to time, of certain of our accounts receivable, inventory, and equipment. As a result, these restrictions may prevent us from being able to borrow sufficient funds under our current credit facility to meet our future capital needs, and alternate financing on terms acceptable to us may not be available. 21 If our liquidity would remain constrained for more than a temporary period, we may need to either delay certain strategic growth projects or access higher cost capital markets in order to fund our projects, which may adversely affect our financial results. Our required capital expenditures may exceed our estimates. Our capital expenditures were $11.8 million in 2007, primarily including improvements to our manufacturing facilities and equipment to be utilized in our service business. Future capital expenditures may be significantly higher and may vary substantially if we are required to undertake certain actions to comply with new regulatory requirements or compete with new technologies. We may not have the capital to undertake these capital investments. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to effectively compete. Our financial results could be adversely affected by the continued idling of one of our reactivation facilities. In January 2006, we announced the temporary idling of our reactivation facility in Blue Lake, California. It is our intention to resume operation of the plant in the future as market conditions warrant it. If management should determine not to restart the plant, operating results would be adversely affected by impairment charges. Declines in the operating performance of one of our business segments could result in an impairment of the segment’s goodwill. As of December 31, 2007, we had consolidated goodwill of approximately $27.8 million recorded in our business segments, primarily from our Activated Carbon and Service and Equipment segments. We test our goodwill on an annual basis or when an indication of possible impairment exists in order to determine whether the carrying value of our assets is still supported by the fair value of the underlying business. To the extent that it is not, we are required to record an impairment charge to reduce the asset to fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded a $6.9 million impairment charge associated with our UV equipment reporting unit, principally as a result of the fourth quarter decision by the Federal Court of Canada, which found that our patent for the use of UV light to prevent infection from Cryptosporidium in drinking water is invalid. As a result, our estimate of future royalty income used in determining the fair value of the reporting unit declined substantially from the prior year. A decline in the operating performance of any of our business segments or sale of a business at an amount less than book value could result in a goodwill impairment charge which could have a material effect on our financial results. 22 Delays in enactment of new state or federal regulations could restrict our ability to reach our strategic growth targets and lower our return on invested capital. Our strategic growth initiatives are reliant upon more restrictive environmental regulations being enacted for the purpose of making water and air cleaner and safer. If stricter regulations are delayed or are not enacted or enacted but subsequently repealed or amended to be less strict, or enacted with prolonged phase-in periods, our sales growth targets could be adversely affected and our return on invested capital could be reduced. For example, stricter regulations surrounding the treatment of Cryptosporidium and other disease causing microorganisms in drinking water, as addressed by the EPA’s promulgation of the Long Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (“LT2”), were expected to be effective as of the fourth quarter of 2004. LT2 was not ultimately published in the Federal Register until January 2006, thus delaying municipalities’ requirements for testing and any subsequent need to fund a plan for remediation by over a year. The effect has been a delay in the timing of the expected growth for our UV equipment business. The Company has also anticipated increased demand for powdered activated carbon products beginning in 2009 that would be driven by the EPA's Clean Air Mercury Rule, which established an emissions trading system to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants by approximately 70% over a 10 year period. On February 8, 2008, the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule. Additional appeals, litigation, and regulatory proceedings could defer implementation of another EPA mercury reduction regulation for years, although any such regulation could be substantially more stringent, leading to higher than expected demand for the Company's products at a later date. Even if adoption of a new Clean Air Mercury Rule is delayed indefinitely by the legal and regulatory process, existing federal and state laws and regulations, as well as federal legislation introduced in response to the Court of Appeals decision and new litigation, could result in substantially more stringent regulation, resulting in higher-than expected demand for the Company's products, within the near future. The Company is unable to predict with certainty when and how the outcome of these complex legal, regulatory and legislative proceedings will affect demand for its products. 23 Our industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively with competitors having greater resources than we do, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our activated carbon business faces significant competition from Norit N.V., Westvaco Corporation and Siemens Water, together with Chinese producers. Our UV technology products face significant competition from Trojan Technologies, Inc., which is owned by Danaher Corporation, and Wedeco Ideal Horizons, which is owned by ITT Industries. In each case, our competitors include major manufacturers and diversified companies, a number of which have revenues and capital resources exceeding ours, which they may use to develop more advanced or more cost-effective technologies, increase market share or leverage their distribution networks. We may experience reduced net sales as a result of having fewer resources than these competitors. Encroachment into our markets by competitive technologies could adversely affect our financial results. Activated carbon is utilized in various applications as a cost-effective solution to solve customer problems. If other competitive technologies, such as membranes, ozone and UV, are advanced to the stage in which such technologies could cost effectively compete with activated carbon technologies, we could experience a decline in net sales, which could adversely affect our financial results. Failure to innovate new products or applications could adversely affect our ability to meet our strategic growth targets. Part of our strategic growth and profitability plans involve the development of new products or new applications for our current products in order to replace more mature products or markets that have seen increased competition. If we are unable to develop new products or applications, our financial results could be adversely affected. A planned or unplanned shutdown at one of our production facilities could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We operate multiple facilities, and source product from strategic partners who operate facilities, which are close to water or in areas susceptible to earthquakes. An unplanned shutdown at any of our or our strategic partners’ facilities for more than a temporary period as a result of a hurricane, typhoon, earthquake or other natural disaster, or as a result of fire, explosions, war, terrorist activities, political conflict or other hostilities, could significantly affect our ability to meet our demand requirements, thereby resulting in lost sales and profitability in the short-term or eventual loss of customers in the long-term. In addition, a prolonged planned shutdown of any of our production facilities due to a change in business conditions could result in impairment charges that could have an adverse impact on our financial results. 24 An example of an unplanned shutdown of one of our production facilities was the shutdown of our Pearl River facility in Pearlington, Mississippi due to damage caused by Hurricane Katrina in August 2005. The plant did not become operational again until November 2005 and was not operating again at full capacity until January 2006. Certain customer shipments were either delayed or cancelled during the plant outage, the consequences of which adversely affected us during 2006. We estimated our pre-tax business interruption losses during 2005 and 2006 to be approximately $4.4 million in the aggregate due to the effect of the unplanned shutdown of the Pearl River facility. We hold a variety of patents that give us a competitive advantage in certain markets. An inability to defend those patents from competitive attack could have an adverse effect on both current results and future growth targets. From time to time in the course of our business, we have to address competitive challenges to our patented technology. Following protracted litigation in multiple jurisdictions, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held that our process patents for the use of ultraviolet light to prevent infection from Cryptosporidium and Giardia in drinking water thereby concluding this case (the “UV patents”) are invalid in the United States. On March 3, 2008, the Supreme Court of Canada held that our Canadian UV patents are invalid, thereby concluding this case. We did not appeal the ruling in the United States. A German trial court has found that a competitor infringed our UV patents with respect to medium pressure ultraviolet light, but did not infringe with respect to low pressure ultraviolet light. The Company appealed the decision relating to low pressure ultraviolet light. The competitor did not appeal. Oral argument is scheduled for September 2008. The validity of the German UV patents, as distinguished from issues of infringement which were decided in the trial court, is the subject of administrative proceedings in Germany. The outcome of these cases has impaired the Company’s ability to capitalize on substantial future revenues from the licensing of its UV patents. With the exception of 2007, we have incurred significant legal fees and expenses in recent years litigating these matters. For example, legal expenses related to these patent litigation matters totaled approximately $4.7 million in 2006 and $3.9 million in 2005. We may be required to incur additional significant legal expenses to defend our intellectual property in the future. Furthermore, these legal disputes over our UV patents may adversely affect our business and growth prospects because they may suppress overall demand for UV equipment as municipalities may decide to wait for the completion of the litigation to resolve the resulting uncertainties before making investment decisions. 25 Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, our products may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement by us of the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim. If we were to discover or be notified that our products potentially infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Our production facilities are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate or maintain properties. Costs may be incurred in complying with such laws and regulations. Each of our domestic production facilities require permits and licenses issued by local, state and federal regulators which regulate air emissions and water discharges. These permits are subject to renewal and, in some circumstances, revocation. International environmental requirements vary and could have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors a competitive advantage. Additional costs may be incurred if environmental remediation measures are required. In addition, the discovery of contamination at any of our current or former sites or at locations at which we disposed of waste may expose us to cleanup obligations and other damages. For example, the Company received a Notice of Violation (“NOV”) from the U.S. EPA in January 2007 and from the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection in July 2007. While the Company is attempting to resolve these matters, an unfavorable result could have a significant adverse impact on financial results. If we receive similar demands in the future, we may incur significant costs in connection with the resolution of those matters. 26 Our international operations expose us to political and economic uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We have manufacturing facilities and sales offices in Europe, China, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, Brazil, Mexico, Canada, and the United Kingdom which are subject to economic conditions and political factors within the respective countries which, if changed in a manner adverse to us, could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Approximately 85% of our sales in 2007 were generated by products sold in the U.S., Canada, and Western Europe while the remaining sales were generated in other areas of the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America. We face risks in connection with compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and any other related remedial measures that we may undertake. During 2006, the Company had identified and subsequently remediated a material weakness in its internal controls. If we are unable to effectively remediate any other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that are identified in the future and to assert that disclosure controls and procedures including internal control over financial reporting are effective in any future period, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. In addition, we may be required to incur additional costs including but not limited to the hiring of additional personnel to improve our existing internal control system. We have significant domestic and foreign net operating tax loss and credit carryforwards which, if they are not utilized, would have an adverse effect on our financial results. As of December 31, 2007, we had $13.1 million of deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and tax credit carryforwards that were generated from both our domestic and foreign operations. We have established a valuation reserve of $6.2 million for these deferred tax assets that are not deemed more likely than not to be realized. If we do not meet our projections of profitability in the future, we may not be able to realize these NOLs or tax credits, and we may be required to record an additional valuation allowance, which would adversely affect our financial results. In addition, if some or all of these NOLs or tax credits expire, they will not be available to offset our tax liability. 27 Our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 31, 2007, we had NOLs of approximately $0.5 million for federal income tax purposes and approximately $61.4 million for state income tax purposes. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs existing at that time could be limited. We may not have sufficient funds necessary to settle conversion of our convertible notes due in 2036 or to purchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change or other purchase date, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the notes. Upon conversion of the convertible notes, we will be required to pay a settlement amount in cash and shares of our common stock, if any, based upon a 25 trading-day observation period. In addition, on August 15, 2011, August 15, 2016 and August 15, 2026, holders of the notes may require us to purchase their notes. Holders may also require us to purchase their notes upon a fundamental change. A fundamental change may also include an event of default, and result in the effective acceleration of the maturity of our then-existing indebtedness under our current credit facility or other indebtedness we may have in the future. We may not have sufficient financial resources, or may not be able to arrange financing, to pay the settlement amount in cash, or the purchase price or fundamental change purchase price for the notes tendered by the holders in cash. Our ability to pay the settlement amount in cash, or the purchase price or fundamental change purchase price for the notes in cash will be subject to limitations we may have in our credit facilities, or any other indebtedness we may have in the future. If the notes are converted or we are required to purchase them, we may seek the consent of our lenders or attempt to refinance our debt, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. At December 31, 2007, the conversion option was triggered based on the trading price of our common stock. As such, the note holders have the right to convert their notes to cash and common stock. Unless we have made alternative financing arrangements, a portion of the convertible debt will be considered current. Failure by us to pay the settlement amount upon conversion or purchase the notes when required will result in an event of default with respect to the notes, which may also result in a default under existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. If the repayment of such indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and the notes. 28 The fundamental change provisions in our convertible notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of our company. The fundamental change provisions in our convertible notes, including the fundamental change purchase right and the provisions requiring an increase in the conversion rate for conversions in connection with certain fundamental changes, may in certain circumstances delay or prevent a takeover of our company and the removal of incumbent management that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. Our stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of our company. Our stockholder rights plan and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These include provisions: · providing for a board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · requiring super-majority voting to affect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; · limiting the persons who may call special stockholders’ meetings; · limiting stockholder action by written consent; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings; and · allowing our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions, along or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock, or could limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 29 Item 