Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to those described under “Forward-Looking Statements” above, the more prominent risks and uncertainties are set forth below. However, this section does not discuss all possible risks and uncertainties to which we are subject, nor can it be assumed necessarily that there are no other risks and uncertainties, which may be more significant to us. We have substantial liquidity needs and could face liquidity pressure. At December 31, 2007, our total assets were $503.2 million, total debt was $554.3 million, and our stockholders’ deficit was $185.6 million. On February 22, 2008, Wellman, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court and entered into an interim DIP Credit Agreement. Under the DIP Credit Agreement, we can borrow up to $225 million, subject to a Borrowing Base, with a letter of credit sublimit of $40 million. We could face liquidity challenges as we continue to have substantial debt and to have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. Our ability to make interest payments on the debt and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is dependent upon industry conditions, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other 16 Table of Contents factors beyond our control. Although we expect to continue to have sufficient resources and borrowing capacity under our DIP Credit Agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs. For additional discussion regarding our capital resources and liquidity, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Resources and Liquidity.” The outcome of our Chapter 11 proceedings could result in a substantial dilution or cancellation of our current outstanding common and preferred stock. As a result of our voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court, our common and preferred stock may become worthless and may be cancelled for no consideration. We may be unable to obtain additional financing in the future. Our DIP Credit Agreement prohibits us from directly, or indirectly, incurring, creating, or assuming any additional post-petition indebtedness other than indebtedness arising under the DIP Credit Agreement and the other credit agreements in place at December 31, 2007. In addition, we are required under the DIP Credit Agreement to have a sale order entered by the Bankruptcy Court by July 31, 2008, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, for the sale of our assets. Failure to do so could cause all amounts borrowed under this financing to be due and payable. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which could adversely affect our financial health if interest rates were to rise significantly. Prior to February 2008, we managed our interest rate risk through the use of hedging agreements. These hedging agreements were repaid as a condition of our entering into the DIP Credit Agreement. Substantially all of our indebtedness contains floating rate interest provisions, which we pay on a current basis. However, interest on such obligations could rise to levels in excess of the cash available to us. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our floating rate debt, it could result in a default under our DIP credit agreement. We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in the Chapter 11 cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation and certain debts arising afterwards. With few exceptions, all claims that arose prior to the Petition Date and before confirmation of the plan of reorganization (i) are subject to compromise and/or treatment under the plan of reorganization or (ii) will be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the plan of reorganization. Any claims not ultimately discharged by the Bankruptcy Court could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Transfers of our equity, or any issuances of equity in connection with our reorganization, may impair our ability to utilize our federal income tax net operating loss carry-forwards in the future. Under federal income tax law, net operating loss carry-forwards can be utilized to reduce future taxable income subject to certain limitations if we were to undergo an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code. If an ownership change were to occur as a result of transactions in our stock, our ability to utilize the NOL carry-forwards may be significantly limited. We depend on our management and employees. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our people. While we believe that we have excellent depth throughout all levels of management and in all key skill levels of our employees, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to attract talented, committed individuals to fill vacant positions when needs arise, it may adversely affect our ability to fully implement our business objectives. 17 Table of Contents Competition could adversely affect our performance. Our businesses compete on a variety of factors such as price, product quality, performance or specifications, continuity of supply, customer service, and breadth of product line. Major competitors include diversified industrial companies, which are larger or have greater financial resources. Changes in a competitor’s business behavior may adversely affect our financial performance. Reduced raw material margins could adversely affect our operating results. Raw material margin, which is the difference between our net selling price and the cost of our raw materials, is an extremely important factor in determining our operating results. Selling prices are influenced by competition and capacity utilization, which is the demand for product from NAFTA producers divided by total NAFTA industry capacity. Demand for our product is determined principally by our end-use markets, substitution of our product for other products, economic conditions, imports, and our products’ competitive cost position. Supply is determined by worldwide capacity, which is expanding for both PET resin and polyester staple fiber. Any reduction of selling prices, failure to achieve announced selling price increases, or any significant expansion in capacity over demand could reduce our operating results. Any increase in raw material costs (see “Our operations are dependent on the availability and cost of our raw materials” below) without a corresponding increase in selling price would reduce our raw material margins and operating results. A material change in demand, supply, general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations are dependent on the availability and cost of our raw materials. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability and cost of our two primary raw materials, PTA and MEG, and to a lesser extent our recycled raw materials. We currently rely on a single producer for our domestic supply of PTA and a small number of sources for MEG. The effect of the loss of any producer, a disruption in their businesses or a failure to meet our product needs on a timely basis would depend primarily upon the length of time necessary to find a suitable alternative source. Temporary shortages in needed raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot be sure that we would be able to secure an alternative source of supply at a competitive cost in a timely manner if any of these situations were to occur. The prices of PTA and MEG, purchased pursuant to long-term contracts, have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future. Recycled raw materials are purchased from many different suppliers. The prices of recycled raw materials are variable and determined by regional and worldwide supply and demand. Reduced sales volume could adversely affect our operating results. Sales volume is another important factor in determining our operating results. Our sales volume is influenced by competition and customer demand. A material change in demand, supply, or general economic conditions and uncertainties regarding our future economic viability or ownership could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume and negatively impact our unit costs and operating results. Increases in costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our inability to maintain our cost structure and efficiently operate our manufacturing facilities may reduce our operating results. In addition, increases in certain non-controllable costs where the expense we incur may change based on external factors may reduce our operating results. Examples of these costs are energy, insurance and tax. Energy costs are impacted by changes in petrochemical costs and, as these increase, our cost of natural gas, electricity, and fuel oil increases and may reduce our operating results by increasing our production costs. Insurance costs change depending on the market and our experience. Prices and volumes of polyester staple fiber and PET resin imports could adversely impact our margins. NAFTA manufacturers of polyester staple fiber and PET resin could be severely impacted by imports of fiber, PET resins and textile products, principally from Asian countries. Imports of polyester staple fiber, PET resin and 18 Table of Contents textiles products have already and may continue to decrease our margins. The price and volume of imports have and could continue to significantly impact our operating results. The growth in textile and apparel imports, especially from Asia, could have a negative impact on our textile customers. All remaining quotas on textile and apparel imports into the United States were eliminated as of January 1, 2005 pursuant to the GATT (now known as the World Trade Organization Agreement) Uruguay Round Agreement enacted in 1994. In November 2005, the United States and China reached a new agreement on 34 textile and apparel categories which will limit most apparel imports to a 10.0% to 12.5% annual growth rate and most textile imports to a 12.5% to 17.0% annual growth rate for 2007 to 2008. This agreement may limit the growth in textile and apparel imports from China during this period; however, growth in textile and apparel imports may accelerate from other Asian countries whose quotas are completely eliminated. Producers of polyester staple fiber in the United States benefit from anti-dumping duties on certain polyester staple products imported into the U.S. from South Korea, Taiwan, and China. Adverse changes of these anti-dumping determinations could affect the demand and selling price for our polyester staple fiber products and adversely affect our operating results. The financial condition of our customers impacts our operating results. Our customers include manufacturers of plastic containers, textile mills, yarn spinners, manufacturers of non-woven fabrics and filled products, and the injection molding industry. One customer represented approximately 16% of our chemical-based segment’s total net sales for 2007 and 15% of our total net sales for 2007. Five customers represented approximately 49% of our chemical-based segment’s total net sales for 2007 and 46% of our total net sales for 2007. Two customers represented approximately 26% of our recycled-based segment’s total net sales for 2007 and 1% of our total net sales for 2007. If our customers have financial difficulties, this could affect our operating results by decreasing our sales and/or resulting in the uncollectibility of accounts receivable. Additional liabilities may be proposed by tax authorities. We have entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of our business. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. It is possible that additional liabilities may be proposed by tax authorities as a result of these reviews and that some of the reviews could be resolved unfavorably. Actual costs for environmental matters may vary from the estimates. Actual costs and future estimated costs for identified environmental situations may change. Given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures due to unknown conditions, changing government regulations and legal standards regarding liability and evolving related technologies, we could have higher future environmental expenditures than we have estimated. Natural disasters could disrupt our business and affect our operating results. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes, have disrupted our business and our suppliers’ and customers’ businesses in the past and could disrupt these businesses in the future and affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents 