Item 1A. Risk Factors. History of operating losses – We continue to incur operating losses that are funded with our existing cash reserves, which may not be sufficient to fund our projected losses in future periods. We continue to pursue new service offerings and take cost cutting measures in an effort to return to profitability. Failure to return to profitability will have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our operations. Current economic conditions – Recent volatility in domestic and international financial markets has resulted in deteriorating worldwide economic conditions. Our revenues are affected by our clients’ marketing communications spending and advertising budgets. Demand for the Company’s services has and may continue to decline in the current economic climate as a result of budget constraints and financial instability of certain clients. If economic conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate further, there will be a further significant adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Available capital – Additional capital for financing may not be available in the current economic climate. The Company will need access to additional capital if there is no improvement in the Company’s operations and current economic conditions do not improve. If such additional capital is not available there would be a significant adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain a going concern. Cost cutting measures – In response to current economic conditions, the Company continues to take action to reduce its costs. Reductions in personnel made in response to the decline in business may impair the Company’s ability to adequately service its clients. The inability of the Company to adequately service its clients would have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s ability to remain a going concern. Going concern – Based on its recent operating performance, current economic conditions, and the Company’s most recent projections, the Company has initiated additional cost cutting measures and is engaged in discussions in an effort to secure additional financing and investment sources, including from potential buyers. If the Company is unable to achieve profitability through its cost cutting measures or improved operating performance or if the Company is unable to secure additional financing or find interested investors or buyers, the Company may not be able to continue as a going concern, which may result in the Company’s inability to realize the carrying value of its assets and liquidate its liabilities. 6 Financial Stability of Clients – The recent deterioration in worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect the creditworthiness and financial stability of certain of the Company’s clients. The Company provides credit to its clients on an uncollateralized basis and any deterioration in the creditworthiness and financial stability of such clients would have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to collect outstanding receivables and may result in a loss of revenue generated with such clients. The Company believes that the inability to collect receivables and the loss of revenue from any single client would not have a material adverse effect on its business. However, if several clients experience financial difficulty as a result of the deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and the Company were unable to collect receivables or were to lose revenue from such clients, there would be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition. Major News Events – Events that dominate news broadcasts may cause our clients to delay or not use our services for a particular project as such clients may determine that their messages may not receive adequate attention in light of the coverage received by these other news events. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Receptiveness of the Media to Our Services; Changes in Our Marketplace – We are a provider of creative production and distribution services to corporations and other organizations seeking to communicate with the public through the news media. If the marketplace for our services should continue to change or if the news media, as a result of recent events or a perceived reduction in the value of our services or otherwise, should not be as receptive to our services or should decide to reduce or eliminate its use of the content that we distribute, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Competition – The markets for our services are highly competitive. The principal competitive factors affecting us are effectiveness, reliability, price, technological sophistication, and timeliness. Numerous specialty companies compete with us in each of our service offerings although few companies compete across all service lines. Compared to us, some of our competitors or potential competitors have longer operating histories, longer client relationships, and significantly greater financial, management, technological, sales, marketing, and other resources. In addition, clients could perform internally all or certain of the services we provide rather than outsourcing such services. We could face competition from companies in related communications markets, which could offer services that are similar or superior to those offered by us. In addition, national and regional telecommunications providers could enter the market with materially lower electronic delivery costs, and radio and television networks could also begin transmitting business communications separate from their news programming. Our ability to maintain and attract clients depends to a significant degree on the quality of services provided and our reputation among our clients and potential clients as compared to that of our competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not face increased competition in the future or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. New Services – We must develop new services to remain competitive, maintain or grow market share, and to operate in new markets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new services, that we will have sufficient capital to finance the development of such new services, or that those new services will meet client needs. Failure to successfully develop and market new services may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. General Governmental Regulations – Changes in governing laws and regulations could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our operations. Limitations, restrictions, or conditions imposed on us by these laws and regulations or on the news media could have the effect of reducing the effectiveness of our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Federal Communications Commission Actions – We provide broadcasters, free of charge, with our clients’ video content, which contains full identification as to the client or ultimate provider of the video content. Our narrative marketing offerings are clearly branded and labeled within the video content itself. Broadcasters that choose to air video content in its original or edited form may do so with the labeling or attribution that we provide or they may air the video content with either no labeling or attribution or with their own labeling and attribution. Actions that the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) may take with regard to broadcasters could have the effect of reducing the number of broadcasters that air our clients’ material. Such possible FCC actions include rule enforcement and the promulgation of new rules and regulations requiring broadcasters to include labeling and attribution in the aired content. 7 Any labeling or attribution requirement would not preclude broadcasters from continuing to use the video content that we provide and would not change the manner in which we currently provide the video content to the broadcasters since we have always provided the broadcasters with this information. Any actions by the FCC on this matter, however, could reduce the effectiveness of certain of our services and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Provisions of Our Charter Documents May Have Anti-takeover Effects that Could Prevent a Change in Control Even if the Change in Control Would be Beneficial to our Stockholders – Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. Other Risk Factors – Other risk factors include our ability to develop new products and services that keep pace with technology, and our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with critical vendors. In addition, the absence of long-term contracts with clients and vendors may adversely affect our operations and have an adverse effect on our pricing, revenues, operating margins, and client base. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. Item 