Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto. Because we are in Chapter 11 and have incurred significant operating losses, it is uncertain whether we will emerge from bankruptcy or achieve a viable operation. We are currently operating as debtors-in-possession under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and our continuation as a going concern is contingent upon, among other things, our ability to gain approval of the plan of reorganization by the requisite parties under the Bankruptcy Code and have the plan confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, comply with terms of existing and future loan agreements, return to profitability, generate sufficient cash flows from operations and obtain financing sources to meet future obligations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 proceedings may harm our business. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 proceedings continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with our reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 proceedings will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business and will likely erode investor confidence. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 proceedings continue, the more likely it is that our customers, suppliers, distributors and agents will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our business and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 proceedings continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 proceedings may also 9 Table of Contents require us to seek additional financing in order to service debt and other obligations. It may not be possible for us to obtain additional financing during or after the Chapter 11 proceedings on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 proceedings and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our business may be seriously jeopardized. We may not be able to generate a viable plan, and we may not be able to obtain confirmation of the plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the plan. A dissenting holder of a claim against or equity interest in the Company may challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting Classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the plan “does not unfairly discriminate” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to any non-accepting Classes, (ii) confirmation of the plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting Holders of Claims within a particular Class under the plan will not be less than the value of distributions such Holders would receive if the Company were liquidated under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that the plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we will be able to reorganize our business and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against or equity interests in the Company ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is possible that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive under the plan. We have risk relating to our financial condition and liquidity. As discussed in Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, we are operating as debtors-in-possession under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding our current circumstances, it is difficult to predict our actual liquidity needs and sources at this time. Our access to additional financing while in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process may be limited. We have been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. On March 21, 2007, our common stock was suspended from trading and was later, effective May 4, 2007, delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Our common stock is now traded through broker-to-broker transactions on what is commonly referred to as “Pink Sheets”. The price of our stock is quoted through an Over-the-Counter (OTC) bulletin board. This has reduced the market and liquidity of our common stock and consequently the ability of our stockholders and broker/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner or at all. The volume of trading in our stock has generally declined since our bankruptcy filing. Trading in our common stock in this manner entails other risks. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our common stock and reduced analyst coverage, the trading price of the Company’s common stock may change quickly, and brokers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when the common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue to operate as a going concern which contemplates continuity of operations, timely payment for services by customers, control of operating costs and expenses and the realization of asset sales and liquidation of liabilities and commitments. The bankruptcy filing and related circumstances, including our default on all pre- 10 Table of Contents petition debt, the losses from operations, as well as current economic conditions, raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. The appropriateness of reporting on a going concern basis is dependent upon, among other things, the availability of sufficient capital to meet expenses, confirmation of a plan of reorganization, future profitable operations, customer and employee retention and the ability to generate sufficient cash from operations and financing sources to meet our obligations as they become due. We have assumed all of the foregoing. Should some or all of our assumptions fail to be realized in the future, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected and our ability to continue as a going concern will be doubtful. Our continuing failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC poses significant risks to our business, each of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We did not timely file with the SEC our Form 10-K for fiscal 2005 or 2006, and we have not filed with the SEC our Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended April 29, 2006, July 29, 2006, and October 28, 2006. Also, we have not timely filed with the SEC our Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended May 5, 2007, August 4, 2007, and November 3, 2007. Consequently, we are not compliant with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. Our inability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC involves a number of current and future significant risks, including: • A breach had been declared under our bank credit facility (see Note 7 to the Accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements) causing our lenders to declare our outstanding loans due and payable. • Our common stock has been delisted from the NYSE. We may be unable to re-register our common stock on the NYSE or other exchanges. • We are not eligible to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, which prevents us from accessing the public capital markets. Any of these events could continue to materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In our internal control assessments, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. As discussed in Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES the Company’s assessments of our internal control over financial reporting identified material weaknesses. Due to these material weaknesses, management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of February 3, 2007. Our inability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could, among other things, cause us to continue to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner or require us to incur additional costs or divert management resources. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Restrictions placed on us by our bank credit facility may limit our ability to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to changes. As discussed in Note 7 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements — Long-Term Debt Obligations, we were not in compliance with various debt covenants contained in our Credit Facility (defined 11 Table of Contents in Note 7) prior to filing for Bankruptcy in March of 2007. Subsequent to year end our Credit Facility was replaced by a $105 million debtor-in-possession financing arrangement (defined in Note 7 as the “DIP Credit Facility”). The DIP Credit Facility contains several covenants, including but not limited to limitations on liens, additional indebtedness, sale of assets, investments/acquisitions, loans, and the payment of dividends. Under the DIP Credit Facility we are currently required to maintain at least $15 million of excess availability, as defined. We are currently in compliance with covenants under the DIP Credit Facility. However, future violations of the covenants would permit the lenders to restrict our ability to borrow or initiate letters of credit, and require immediate repayment of amounts outstanding. Taxing authorities could disagree with our tax treatment of certain deductions or transactions, resulting in unexpected tax assessments. The possibility exists that the Internal Revenue Service or another taxing authority could audit our current or previously filed tax returns and dispute our treatment of a tax deduction, resulting in an unexpected assessment. Depending on the timing and amount of such an assessment, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Failure to comply with the requirements of the NYSE or other exchanges could cause our stock to continue to be delisted and may impede our ability to re-register our common stock. The inability to re-register our common stock would have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, reducing: • the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; and • the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to our internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements. We have devoted substantial internal and external resources to the completion of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended January 28, 2006 and February 3, 2007. As a result of these efforts, along with efforts to complete our assessments of internal control over financial reporting as of February 3, 2007, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that we will incur incremental fees and expenses for additional auditor hours and fees, financial and other consulting services and legal services. While we do not expect fees and expenses relating to the preparation of our financial results for future periods to remain at this level, we expect that these fees and expenses will remain significantly higher than historical fees and expenses in this category for the next several quarters. These expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by our management and staff towards addressing these weaknesses, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions in connection with the 2005 restatement of prior period financial statements. In our 2005 Form 10-K filed with the SEC we restated the quarterly financial data for the interim periods of fiscal 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2004 and 2003. We may in the future 12 Table of Contents be subject to class action suits, other litigation or regulatory proceedings or actions arising in relation to the restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any expenses incurred in connection with this potential litigation or regulatory proceedings or action not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution of this potential litigation or regulatory proceedings or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, any litigation or regulatory proceedings or action may be time consuming, and it may distract our management from the conduct of our business. Our current cash resources might not be sufficient to meet our expected near-term cash needs. If we do not generate positive cash flow from operations, we would need to develop and implement alternative strategies. These alternative strategies could include seeking improvements in working capital management, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional debt or financing, and selling assets. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Competitive changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are one of the largest fabric retailers in the United States and principally compete with only one national fabric/craft store chain, a few small fabric chains and numerous independent fabric stores. In addition, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. has a fabric department in most store locations. Changes in our competitive environment could adversely impact our operating results. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the following: • liquidation of inventory in Hancock’s markets caused by a competitor’s store closings or need to dispose of inventory; • new entrants into the retail fabric industry; • expansion by existing competitors into our markets; and • increased competitive pricing strategies. The influence of adverse general economic factors on consumers’ spending habits can have a significantly unfavorable impact on our business. Adverse general economic conditions that are beyond our control can negatively impact consumer confidence and spending habits that in turn could lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. These factors include, but are not limited to, increased interest rates in periods of borrowings, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policies, unemployment trends, recession, inflation, and deflation. Our sales generally originate from disposable income from our customers. As the consumer’s disposable income decreases (i.e., as a result of higher fuel prices), our sales revenue could decline leading to a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Changes in customer demands could adversely affect our operating results for the year. Our financial condition and operating results are dependent upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for our products. A miscalculation in the demands of our customers could result in a significant overstock of unpopular products which could lead to major inventory markdowns resulting in negative consequences to our operating results and cash flow. Likewise, a shortage of popular products could also lead to negative operating results and cash flow. A weak fourth quarter would materially adversely affect our operating results for the year. Like many retailers, our strongest quarter in terms of sales, net earnings and cash flow is the fourth quarter. If our fourth quarter results were substantially below expectations, our operating results for the full year would be negatively impacted, and we could have substantial excess inventory that could be difficult to liquidate. 13 Table of Contents Business matters encountered by our suppliers may adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Many of our suppliers are small businesses that produce a limited number of items. Many of these businesses face cash flow issues, production difficulties, quality control issues, and problems in delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule because of their limited resources and lack of financial flexibility. Failure of our key suppliers to withstand a downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are vulnerable to risks associated with obtaining merchandise from foreign suppliers. Hancock relies on foreign suppliers for various products. In addition, some of our domestic suppliers manufacture their products overseas or purchase them from foreign vendors. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could adversely impact our operating results. Interest rate increases could negatively impact profitability. Our financing, investing, and cash management activities are subject to the market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Our profitability could be negatively impacted from significant increases in interest rates. Transportation industry challenges and rising fuel costs may negatively impact our operating results. Our products are delivered to our distribution center from vendors and from our distribution center to our stores by various means of transportation. Our ability to furnish our stores with inventory in a timely manner could be adversely affected by labor shortages in the transportation industry as well as long-term interruptions of service in the national and international transportation infrastructure. In addition, labor shortages could lead to higher transportation costs. With our reliance on the trucking industry to deliver products to our distribution center and our stores, our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate trucking resources to fulfill our delivery schedules to the stores. Increases in fuel prices may result in increases in our transportation costs for distribution to our stores, as well as our vendors’ transportation costs, which could affect our operating results. Delays or interruptions in the flow of merchandise through our distribution center could adversely impact our operating results. Over 70% of our store shipments pass through our distribution center. The remainder of merchandise is drop-shipped by our vendors directly to our store locations. Damage or interruption to the distribution center from factors such as fire, power loss, storm damage or unanticipated supplier shipment delays could cause a disruption in our operations. The occurrence of unanticipated problems at our distribution center would likely result in increased operating expenses and reduced sales that would negatively impact our operating results. A disruption in the performance of our information systems could occur. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business, including effective transaction processing, inventory management, purchasing, selling and shipping goods on a timely basis, and maintaining cost-efficient operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed could disrupt our business and cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative impact on our business. Computer viruses, computer “hackers,” or other system failures could lead to operational problems with our information systems. Our operations and financial performance could also be negatively impacted by costs and potential problems related to the implementation of new or upgraded systems, or if we were unable to provide maintenance and support for our existing systems. A failure to adequately maintain the security of confidential information could have an adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents We have become more dependent upon automated information technology processes, including use of the internet for conducting a portion of our business. Information may be compromised through various means, including penetration of our network security and misappropriation of confidential information. Failure to maintain the security of confidential information could result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, and any breach in the security and integrity of other business information could put us at a competitive disadvantage, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in retail matters and in operating a company of our size and complexity. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets and products, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. We offer financial packages that are competitive within the industry to effectively compete in this area. Changes in the labor market and in federal, state, or local regulations could have a negative impact on our business. Our products are delivered to our customers at our retail stores by quality associates, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions. Attracting and retaining a large number of dependable and knowledgeable associates is vital to our success. External factors, such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, workers compensation costs and changing demographics, affect our ability to manage employee turnover and meet labor needs while controlling our costs. Our operations and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes that adversely affect our ability to attract and retain quality associates. Our debt level upon exit from bankruptcy protection could make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. Our debt level upon exit from bankruptcy protection could adversely affect our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements. This situation could be compounded further if payment terms on our inventory purchases are tightened by our suppliers for any reason. If we do not improve our cash flow from operations and reduce our debt, we might have to seek alternative strategies, including closing additional stores, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, and seeking additional debt or equity financing. Litigation developments and failure to comply with various laws and regulations could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. We are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including liability claims. Litigation could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Also, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. Other matters. The foregoing list of risk factors is not all inclusive. Other factors that are not known to us at this time and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 