Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto. We may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and the current financial crisis. Our performance and operating results are impacted by conditions in the U.S. and the world economy. The macro-economic environment has been highly volatile due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the deterioration of the housing market, lack of credit availability, unpredictable fuel and energy prices, volatile interest rates, inflation fears, unemployment concerns, increasing consumer debt, significant stock market volatility and recession. These economic conditions impact levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. In addition, the current credit crisis is causing a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of this crisis on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. Any or all of these factors, as well as other unforeseen factors, could have a material adverse impact on consumer spending, our availability to obtain financing, our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and stock price. Competitive changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are one of the largest fabric retailers in the United States and principally compete with only one national fabric/craft store chain, a few small fabric chains and numerous independent fabric stores. In addition, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the world’s largest retailer, has a fabric department in many of its store locations. Changes in our competitive environment could adversely impact our operating results. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the following: 6 · liquidation of inventory in Hancock’s markets caused by a competitor’s store closings or need to dispose of inventory; · new entrants into the retail fabric industry; · expansion by existing competitors into our markets; and · increasingly competitive pricing strategies. Changes in customer demands could adversely affect our operating results for the year. Our financial condition and operating results are dependent upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for our products. A miscalculation in the demands of our customers could result in a significant overstock of unpopular products which could lead to major inventory markdowns, resulting in negative consequences to our operating results and cash flow. Likewise, a shortage of popular products could lead to negative operating results and cash flow. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people important to our operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in retail matters and in operating a company of our size and complexity. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets and products, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. We offer financial packages that are competitive within the industry to effectively compete in this area. Interest rate increases could negatively impact profitability. Our financing, investing, and cash management activities are subject to the market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Our profitability could be negatively impacted from significant increases in interest rates. There are risks associated with our common stock trading on the Pink Sheets. The price of our stock is quoted through an Over-the-Counter (OTC) bulletin board. This has reduced the liquidity of our common stock and consequently the ability of our stockholders and broker/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner or at all. Trading in our common stock in this manner entails other risks. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our common stock and reduced analyst coverage, the trading price of the Company’s common stock may change quickly, and brokers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when the common stock was listed on an exchange. Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded for our qualified benefit pension plan. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) require that income or expense for the plan be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions and calculations. These calculations reflect certain assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the capital markets, interest rates and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant assumptions used to estimate pension income or expense for the year are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the interest rate. These assumptions, along with the actual value of assets at the measurement date, will drive the pension income or expense for the year. In addition, at the measurement date, we must also reflect the funded status of the plan liabilities on the balance sheet, which may result in a significant charge to equity through a reduction or increase to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to the pension plan. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law and discretionary contributions to improve a plan’s funded status. 7 Business matters encountered by our suppliers may adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Many of our suppliers are small businesses that produce a limited number of items. Many of these businesses face cash flow issues, production difficulties, quality control issues, and problems in delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule because of their limited resources and lack of financial flexibility. Failure of our key suppliers to withstand a downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are vulnerable to risks associated with obtaining merchandise from foreign suppliers. We rely on foreign suppliers for various products. In addition, some of our domestic suppliers manufacture their products overseas or purchase them from foreign vendors. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could adversely impact our operating results. Transportation industry challenges and rising fuel costs may negatively impact our operating results. Our products are delivered to our distribution center from vendors and from our distribution center to our stores by various means of transportation. Our ability to furnish our stores with inventory in a timely manner could be adversely affected by labor or equipment shortages in the transportation industry as well as long-term interruptions of service in the national and international transportation infrastructure. In addition, labor shortages could lead to higher transportation costs. With our reliance on the trucking industry to deliver products to our distribution center and our stores, our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate trucking resources to fulfill our delivery schedules to the stores. Increases in fuel prices may result in increases in our transportation costs for distribution to our stores, as well as our vendors’ transportation costs, which could affect our operating results. Delays or interruptions in the flow of merchandise through our distribution center could adversely impact our operating results. Approximately 85% of our store shipments pass through our distribution center. The remainder of merchandise is drop-shipped by our vendors directly to our store locations. Damage or interruption to the distribution center from factors such as fire, power loss, storm damage or unanticipated supplier shipment delays could cause a disruption in our operations. The occurrence of unanticipated problems at our distribution center would likely result in increased operating expenses and reduced sales that would negatively impact our operating results. Changes in the labor market and in federal, state, or local regulations could have a negative impact on our business. Our products are delivered to our customers at our retail stores by quality associates, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions. Attracting and retaining a large number of dependable and knowledgeable associates is vital to our success. External factors, such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, workers compensation costs and changing demographics, affect our ability to manage employee turnover and meet labor needs while controlling our costs. Our operations and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes that adversely affect our ability to attract and retain quality associates. Taxing authorities could disagree with our tax treatment of certain deductions or transactions, resulting in unexpected tax assessments. The possibility exists that the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authorities could audit our current or previously filed tax returns and dispute our treatment of tax deductions or apportionment formulas, resulting in unexpected assessments. Depending on the timing and amount of such assessments, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 8 Our current cash resources might not be sufficient to meet our expected near-term cash needs. If we do not generate positive cash flow from operations, we would need to develop and implement alternative strategies. These alternative strategies could include seeking improvements in working capital management, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional debt or financing, and selling assets. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis, or at all. A disruption in the performance of our information systems could occur. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business, including effective transaction processing, inventory management, purchasing, selling and shipping goods on a timely basis, and maintaining cost-efficient operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed could disrupt our business and cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative impact on our business. Computer viruses, computer “hackers,” or other system failures could lead to operational problems with our information systems. Our operations and financial performance could also be negatively impacted by costs and potential problems related to the implementation of new or upgraded systems, or if we were unable to provide maintenance and support for our existing systems. A failure to adequately maintain the security of confidential information could have an adverse effect on our business. We have become more dependent upon automated information technology processes, including use of the internet for conducting a portion of our business. Information may be compromised through various means, including penetration of our network security, hardware tampering, and misappropriation of confidential information. Failure to maintain the security of confidential information could result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, and any breach in the security and integrity of other business information could put us at a competitive disadvantage, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with various laws and regulations as well as litigation developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as well as applicable employment laws. We are involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including liability claims. Litigation could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Also, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. We may not be able to maintain or negotiate favorable lease terms. We lease substantially all of our store locations. The majority of our store leases contain provisions for base rent and a small number of store leases contain provisions for base rent plus percentage rent based on sales in excess of an agreed upon minimum annual sales level. If we are unable to renew, renegotiate or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, our growth and profitability could be harmed. Other matters. The foregoing list of risk factors is not all inclusive. Other factors that are not known to us at this time and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 Item 