Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many risk factors that affect our business and operating results, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of all known material risks that may cause our actual operating results in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto. 6 Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and the slow economic recovery following the recent financial crisis. Our performance and operating results are impacted by conditions in the U.S. and the world economy. The macro-economic environment has been highly volatile in recent years due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the lagging demand in the housing market, lack of credit availability, unpredictable fuel and energy prices, volatile interest rates, inflation fears, unemployment concerns, increasing consumer debt, significant stock market volatility, and recession. These economic conditions negatively impact levels of consumer spending, which may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. The slow economic recovery may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our results of operations and continued growth. In addition, the current credit crisis is causing a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The impact of this environment on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise. Any or all of these factors, as well as other unforeseen factors, could have a material adverse impact on consumer spending, our availability to obtain financing, our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and stock price. We are subject to intense competition in our business, which could have a material effect on our operations. Competition is intense in the retail fabric and craft industry, primarily due to low entry barriers. We must remain competitive in the areas of quality, price, selection, customer service, convenience, and reputation. Our primary competition is comprised of specialty fabric retailers and specialty craft retailers such as Jo-Ann Stores, a national chain that operates fabric and craft stores. We also compete with mass merchants, including Wal-Mart, that dedicate a portion of their selling space to a limited selection of fabrics, craft supplies and seasonal and holiday merchandise. In the craft segment, we also compete with Hobby Lobby, a national chain that operates craft stores that also carries fabrics, Michaels Stores, Inc., a national chain that operates craft and framing stores, and A.C. Moore Arts & Crafts, Inc., a regional chain that operates craft stores in the eastern United States. Some of our competitors have stores nationwide, several operate regional chains and numerous others are local merchants. Some of our competitors, particularly the national specialty chain stores and the mass merchants, are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. The performance of competitors as well as changes in their pricing and promotional policies, marketing activities, new store openings, merchandising and operational strategies could impact our sales and profitability. Our sales and profitability could also be impacted by store liquidations of our competitors. In addition, alternative methods of selling fabrics and crafts, such as over the Internet, could result in additional competitors in the future and increased price competition since our customers could more readily comparison shop. Moreover, we ultimately compete against alternative sources of entertainment and leisure activities for our customers that are unrelated to the fabric and craft industry. This competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability. Changes in customer demands could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial condition and operating results are dependent upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for our products. A miscalculation in the anticipated demands of our customers could result in a significant overstock of unpopular products which could lead to major inventory markdowns, resulting in negative consequences to our operating results and cash flow. Likewise, a shortage of popular products could lead to negative operating results and cash flow. Our inability to effectively implement our growth strategy may have an adverse effect on sales growth Our growth strategy includes opening new stores, remodeling existing stores, and introducing changes to our merchandise assortments, among others. Certain risks involved with implementing these strategies may not be adequately addressed, and future sales and operating results may be less than anticipated which may negatively impact the return on investment. Future growth and profitability is dependent upon the successful implementation of our growth strategy and realizing positive returns on investments. 7 Our ability to attract and retain skilled people is important to our success. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in retail matters and in operating a company of our size and complexity. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of the unique skills, knowledge of our markets and products, and years of industry experience such personnel contribute to the business and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. We offer financial packages that are competitive within the industry to effectively compete in this area. Interest rate increases could negatively impact profitability. Our financing, investing, and cash management activities are subject to the market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Our profitability could be negatively impacted by significant increases in interest rates. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could have important negative consequences to us. Our significant indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to such indebtedness; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements; · requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures or other growth initiatives, and other general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and · limiting our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness as it matures. As a consequence of our level of indebtedness, a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service requirements. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If we fail to comply with these covenants, a default may occur, in which case the lender could accelerate the debt. We cannot assure you that we would be able to renegotiate, refinance or otherwise obtain the necessary funds to satisfy these obligations. There are risks associated with our common stock trading on the OTC Markets, formerly known as the “Pink Sheets”. Effective May 4, 2007, our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, and there is currently no established public trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Markets (formerly known as “Pink Sheets”) under the symbol “HKFI.PK”. The OTC Markets is a centralized quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities in real time. Over-the-counter market quotations, like those on the OTC Markets, reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down, or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Stocks trading in the OTC Markets generally have substantially less liquidity consequently it can be much more difficult for stockholders and broker/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner or at all. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our common stock and reduced analyst coverage, the trading price of our common stock may change quickly, and brokers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they previously could when our common stock was listed on an exchange. Currently, we are not actively seeking to become listed on any exchange. There can be no assurance that our common stock will again be listed on an exchange, or that a trading market for our common stock will be established. 8 Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded for our qualified benefit pension plan. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) require that income or expense for the plan be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions and calculations. These calculations reflect certain assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the capital markets, interest rates and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant assumptions used to estimate pension income or expense for the year are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the interest rate. These assumptions, along with the actual value of assets at the measurement date, will drive the pension income or expense for the year. In addition, at the measurement date, we must reflect the funded status of the plan liabilities on the balance sheet, which may result in a significant charge to equity through a reduction or increase to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss). Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to the pension plan. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law and discretionary contributions to improve a plan’s funded status. Business matters encountered by our suppliers may adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Many of our suppliers are small businesses that produce a limited number of items. Many of these businesses face cash flow constraints, production difficulties, quality control issues, and problems in delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule because of their limited resources and lack of financial flexibility. Failure of our key suppliers to withstand a downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to meet our customers’ needs. In addition, the significant product safety requirements arising under the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 and state product safety laws may represent a compliance challenge to some of our suppliers, could negatively impact the ability of such suppliers to deliver compliant products to us and thus negatively impact our business operations and performance. Delivery of non-compliant products could result in liability to our company; while we obtain indemnifications from our suppliers with respect to compliance issues, some suppliers might not have the financial resources to stand behind their indemnifications and we could also suffer damage to our reputation. We are vulnerable to risks associated with obtaining merchandise from foreign suppliers. We rely on foreign suppliers, many of whom are located primarily in China and other Asian countries, for the majority of our products. In addition, some of our domestic suppliers manufacture their products overseas or purchase them from foreign vendors. Foreign sourcing subjects us to a number of risks, including long lead times; work stoppages; transportation delays and interruptions; product quality issues; employee rights issues; other social concerns; epidemics; political instability; economic disruptions; the imposition of tariffs, duties, quotas, import and export controls and other trade restrictions; changes in governmental policies; and other events. If any of these events occur, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, reductions in the value of the U.S. dollar or revaluation of the Chinese currency, or other foreign currencies, could ultimately increase the prices that we pay for our products. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service. We may be subjected to additional duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of import privileges, if we or our suppliers are found to be in violation of U.S. laws and regulations applicable to the importation of our products. 9 Transportation industry challenges and rising fuel costs may negatively impact our operating results. Our products are delivered to our distribution center from vendors and from our distribution center to our stores by various means of transportation. Our ability to furnish our stores with inventory in a timely manner could be adversely affected by labor or equipment shortages in the transportation industry as well as long-term interruptions of service in the national and international transportation infrastructure. In addition, labor shortages and increases in fuel prices could lead to higher transportation costs. With our reliance on the trucking industry to deliver products to our distribution center and our stores, our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate trucking resources to fulfill our delivery schedules to the stores or if transportation costs increase. Delays or interruptions in the flow of merchandise through our distribution center could adversely impact our operating results. Approximately 86% of our store shipments pass through our distribution center. The remainder of merchandise is drop-shipped by our vendors directly to our store locations. Damage or interruption to our distribution center from factors such as fire, power loss, storm damage or unanticipated supplier shipment delays could cause a disruption in our operations. The occurrence of unanticipated problems at our distribution center would likely result in increased operating expenses and reduced sales that would negatively impact our operating results. Changes in the labor market and in federal, state, or local regulations could have a negative impact on our business. Our products are delivered to our customers at our retail stores by quality associates, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions. Attracting and retaining a large number of dependable and knowledgeable associates is vital to our success. External factors, such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, workers compensation costs and changing demographics, affect our ability to manage employee turnover and meet labor needs while controlling our costs. Our operations and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes that adversely affect our ability to attract and retain quality associates. Taxing authorities could disagree with our tax treatment of certain deductions or transactions, resulting in unexpected tax assessments. The possibility exists that the Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authorities could audit our current or previously filed tax returns and dispute our treatment of tax deductions or apportionment formulas, resulting in unexpected assessments. Depending on the timing and amount of such assessments, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our current cash resources might not be sufficient to meet our expected near-term cash needs. If we do not generate positive cash flow from operations, we will need to develop and implement alternative strategies. These alternative strategies could include seeking improvements in working capital management, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional debt or financing, and selling assets. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis, or at all. A disruption in the performance of our information systems could occur which would negatively impact our business. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business, including effective transaction processing, inventory management, purchasing, selling and shipping goods on a timely basis, and maintaining cost-efficient operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed could disrupt our business and cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative impact on our business. Computer viruses, computer “hackers,” or other system failures could lead to operational problems with our information systems. Our operations and financial performance could also be negatively impacted by costs and potential problems related to the implementation of new or upgraded systems, or if we were unable to provide maintenance and support for our existing systems. 10 A failure to adequately maintain the security of confidential information could have an adverse effect on our business. We have become more dependent upon automated information technology processes, including use of the internet for conducting a portion of our business. Information may be compromised through various means, including penetration of our network security, hardware tampering, and misappropriation of confidential information. Failure to maintain the security of confidential information could result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, and any breach in the security and integrity of other business information could put us at a competitive disadvantage, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with various laws and regulations as well as litigation developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our policies, procedures, and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as well as applicable employment laws. We are involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including liability claims. Litigation could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Also, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. We may not be able to maintain or negotiate favorable lease terms for our retail stores. We lease substantially all of our store locations. The majority of our store leases contain provisions for base rent and a small number of store leases contain provisions for base rent plus percentage rent based on sales in excess of an agreed upon minimum annual sales level. If we are unable to renew, renegotiate or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, our growth and profitability could be harmed. Changes in accounting principles may have a negative impact on our reported results. A change in accounting standards or policies may have a significant impact on our reported results from operations. New accounting pronouncements and different interpretations of existing pronouncements have been issued and may be issued in the future. Implementation of these standards or policies may have a negative impact on our reported results. Other matters could adversely affect our business. The foregoing list of risk factors is not all inclusive. Other factors that are not known to us at this time and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 11 