Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto. Our continuing failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC poses significant risks to our business, each of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We did not timely file with the SEC our Form 10-K for fiscal 2005, and we have not yet filed with the SEC our Forms 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended April 29, 2006, July 29, 2006, and October 28, 2006. Consequently, we are not compliant with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act or the listing rules of the NYSE. Hancock expects to be able to file its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended April 29, 2006, July 29, 2006 and October 28, 2006 by February 28, 2007. Our inability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC involves a number of significant risks, including: • A breach could be declared under our bank credit facility if our lenders cease to grant us extensions to file our periodic reports, which may result in the lenders declaring our outstanding loans due and payable in whole or in part. • If the NYSE ceases to grant us extensions to file our periodic reports with the NYSE, it has the right to begin proceedings to delist our common stock. • We are not eligible to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, which prevents us from accessing the public capital markets. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2005, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. As discussed in Item 8, “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” of this Annual Report, our management has conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006 and has identified several material weaknesses. A detailed description of each material weakness is described in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006. We have engaged in, and continue to engage in, substantial efforts to address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Our inability to complete the remediation of these identified material weaknesses or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, could, among other things, cause us to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner or require us to incur additional costs or divert management resources. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of 6 Table of Contents effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Restrictions placed on us by our bank credit facility may limit our ability to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to changes. Our bank credit facility contains several covenants, including but not limited to, timely filing of financial statements and limitations on liens, additional indebtedness, sale of assets, investments/acquisitions, loans, and the payment of dividends. In addition, there is a financial covenant that requires us to maintain at least $25 million of excess availability. Subsequent to January 28, 2006, the bank credit facility was amended by us and the bank group to allow us until January 15, 2007 to file Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006, and until February 28, 2007 to file the 2006 quarterly financial statements. Currently, we are in compliance with all of these covenants, as amended. However, our ability to remain in compliance with these covenants may be affected by unanticipated events or events beyond our control. A violation of a covenant could result in a default under the bank credit facility, which would permit the lenders to restrict our ability to borrow or initiate letters of credit, and require immediate repayment of amounts outstanding. There can be no assurance that any additional waivers will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers obtained, including the waivers we have already obtained, will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default or other restrictions on our business operations. The failure to obtain such waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition. Taxing authorities could disagree with the Company’s tax treatment of certain deductions or transactions, resulting in unexpected tax assessments. Income tax expense is a significant component of our statement of operations. The possibility exists that the Internal Revenue Service or another taxing authority could audit our tax returns and dispute our previous treatment of a tax deduction, resulting in an unexpected assessment. Depending on the timing and amount of such an assessment, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Failure to comply with the requirements of the NYSE could cause our stock to be delisted. The late filing of Form 10-K for fiscal year 2005 and the resulting late filings of Form 10-Q for fiscal quarters in 2006 required formal approval of Hancock’s filing extension request by the NYSE to avoid having Hancock’s stock delisted from the NYSE. In addition, the NYSE has certain quantitative continued listing standards related to market cap size, shareholders’ equity size and other factors. Hancock was in compliance with such standards at January 28, 2006; however, continued losses in 2006 could cause Hancock to fall below the standards and risk being delisted. A delisting of our common stock would have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things, reducing: • the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common stock; and 7 Table of Contents • the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in shares of our common stock. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to our internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements. We have devoted substantial internal and external resources to the completion of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 28, 2006 and related matters. As a result of these efforts, along with efforts to complete our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2006, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that we will incur incremental fees and expenses for additional auditor hours and fees, financial and other consulting services, legal services and waiver fees. While we do not expect fees and expenses relating to the preparation of our financial results for future periods to remain at this level, we expect that these fees and expenses will remain significantly higher than historical fees and expenses in this category for the next several quarters. These expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by our management towards addressing these weaknesses, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions in connection with the restatement of prior period financial statements. We have restated the quarterly financial data for the interim periods of fiscal 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2004 and 2003 included in this Form 10-K. We may in the future be subject to class action suits, other litigation or regulatory proceedings or actions arising in relation to the restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any expenses incurred in connection with this potential litigation or regulatory proceeding or action not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution of this potential litigation or regulatory proceeding or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, any litigation or regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, and it may distract our management from the conduct of our business. Our current cash resources might not be sufficient to meet our expected near-term cash needs. If we do not generate positive cash flow from operations, we would need to develop and implement alternative strategies. These alternative strategies could include seeking improvements in working capital management, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional debt or financing, and selling assets. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Competitive changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are one of the largest fabric retailers in the United States and principally compete with only one national fabric/craft store chain, a few small fabric chains and numerous independent fabric stores. In addition, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. has a fabric department in its stores. Changes in our competitive environment could adversely impact our operating results. Such changes include, but are not limited to, the following: • liquidation of inventory in Hancock’s markets caused by a competitor’s store closings or need to dispose of inventory; • new entrants into the retail fabric industry; • expansion by existing competitors into our markets; and • increased competitive pricing strategies. 8 Table of Contents The influence of adverse general economic factors on consumers’ spending habits can have a significantly unfavorable impact on our business. Adverse general economic conditions that are beyond our control can negatively impact consumer confidence and spending habits which in turn could lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. These factors include, but are not limited to, increased interest rates in periods of borrowings, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policies, unemployment trends, recession, inflation, and deflation. Our sales generally originate from disposable income from our customers. As the consumer’s disposable income decreases (i.e., as a result of higher fuel prices), our sales revenue could decline leading to a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Changes in customer demands could adversely affect our operating results for the year. Our financial condition and operating results are dependent upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for our products. A miscalculation in the demands of our customers could result in a significant overstock of unpopular products which could lead to major inventory markdowns resulting in negative consequences to our operating results and cash flow. Likewise, a shortage of popular products could also lead to negative operating results and cash flow. A weak fourth quarter would materially adversely affect our operating results for the year. Like many retailers, our strongest quarter in terms of sales, net earnings and cash flow is the fourth quarter. If our fourth quarter results were substantially below expectations, our operating results for the full year would be negatively impacted, and we could have substantial excess inventory that could be difficult to liquidate. Business matters encountered by our suppliers may adversely impact our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Many of our suppliers are small businesses that produce a limited number of items. Many of these businesses face cash flow issues, production difficulties, quality control issues, and problems in delivering agreed-upon quantities on schedule because of their limited resources and lack of financial flexibility. Failure of our key suppliers to withstand a downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are vulnerable to risks associated with obtaining merchandise from foreign suppliers. Hancock relies on foreign suppliers for various products. In addition, some of our domestic suppliers manufacture their products overseas or purchase them from foreign vendors. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control and could adversely impact our operating results. Interest rate increases could negatively impact profitability. Our financing, investing, and cash management activities are subject to the market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Our profitability could be negatively impacted from significant increases in interest rates. 9 Table of Contents Transportation industry challenges and rising fuel costs may negatively impact our operating results. Our products are delivered to our distribution center from vendors and from our distribution center to our stores by various means of transportation. Our ability to furnish our stores with inventory in a timely manner could be adversely affected by labor shortages in the transportation industry as well as long-term interruptions of service in the national and international transportation infrastructure. In addition, labor shortages could lead to higher transportation costs. With our reliance on the trucking industry to deliver products to our distribution center and our stores, our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to secure adequate trucking resources to fulfill our delivery schedules to the stores. Increases in fuel prices may result in increases in our transportation costs for distribution to our stores, as well as our vendors’ transportation costs, which could affect our operating results. Delays or interruptions in the flow of merchandise through our distribution center could adversely impact our operating results. Over 70% of our store shipments pass through our distribution center. The remainder of merchandise is drop-shipped by our vendors directly to our store locations. Damage or interruption to the distribution center from factors such as fire, power loss, storm damage or unanticipated supplier shipment delays could cause a disruption in our operations. The occurrence of unanticipated problems at our distribution center would likely result in increased operating expenses and reduced sales which would negatively impact our operating results. A disruption in the performance of our information systems could occur. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business, including effective transaction processing, inventory management, purchasing, selling and shipping goods on a timely basis, and maintaining cost-efficient operations. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed could disrupt our business and cause information to be lost or delayed, which could have a negative impact on our business. Computer viruses, computer “hackers,” or other system failures could lead to operational problems with our information systems. Our operations and financial performance could also be negatively impacted by costs and potential problems related to the implementation of new or upgraded systems, or if we were unable to provide maintenance and support for our existing systems. A failure to adequately maintain the security of confidential information could have an adverse effect on our business. We have become more dependent upon automated information technology processes, including use of the internet for conducting a portion of our business. Information may be compromised through various means, including penetration of our network security and misappropriation of confidential information. Failure to maintain the security of confidential information could result in deterioration in our employees’ and customers’ confidence in us, and any breach in the security and integrity of other business information could put us at a competitive disadvantage, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in retail matters and in operating a company of our size and complexity. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have 10 Table of Contents a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets and products, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. We offer financial packages that are competitive within the industry to effectively compete in this area. Changes in the labor market and in federal, state, or local regulations could have a negative impact on our business. Our products are delivered to our customers at our retail stores by quality associates, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions. Attracting and retaining a large number of dependable and knowledgeable associates is vital to our success. External factors, such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, workers compensation costs and changing demographics, affect our ability to manage employee turnover and meet labor needs while controlling our costs. Our operations and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes that adversely affect our ability to attract and retain quality associates. Our existing debt level could make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. Our existing debt level could adversely affect our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements. This situation could be compounded further if payment terms on our inventory purchases are tightened by our suppliers for any reason. If we do not improve our cash flow from operations and reduce our debt, we might have to seek alternative strategies, including closing additional stores, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, and seeking additional debt or financing. Litigation developments and failure to comply with various regulations could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. We are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including liability claims. Litigation could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Also, failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. Other matters. The foregoing list of risk factors is not all inclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business. We do not undertake to revise or update these risks to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are not historical facts and reflect our current views regarding matters such as operations and financial performance. In general, forward-looking statements are identified by such words or phrases as “anticipates,” “believes,” “approximates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends” or “plans” or the negative of those words or other terminology. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties; our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties, either alone or in combination, that could cause our actual results to differ from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those that are discussed above. Other risks not presently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, could also adversely affect our business, financial 11 Table of Contents condition or results of operations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and neither Hancock nor its management undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 