Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are risk factors that affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. A decline in the demand for luxury goods due to difficult macroeconomic conditions has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is focused on the luxury retail sector. SFA stores, OFF 5TH stores and Saks Direct offer a wide assortment of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics, and gift items. All of the goods that the Company sells are discretionary items. Changes in consumer confidence and fluctuations in financial markets can influence cyclical trends, particularly in the luxury sector. Consequently, starting in the fall of 2008, the downturn in the economy resulted in fewer customers shopping in the Company’s stores. In response, and in order to reduce inventory levels, the Company was required to take additional markdowns and to increase promotional events, which negatively impacted the Company’s profitability in 2008 and 2009. In addition, as a result of the decrease in consumer spending, the Company was forced to reduce costs. Although the luxury sector began to experience a recovery in 2010, there can be no assurance that the economy will continue to improve or that the Company will be successful in sustaining profitability. In addition, in the event that the Company is unsuccessful in sustaining profitability, the Company may not be able to realize its net deferred tax assets, which would require the Company to record a valuation allowance that could have a material impact on its results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. Poor economic conditions have affected and may continue to affect consumer spending which has harmed and may continue to harm the Company’s business. The retail industry is continuously subject to domestic and international economic trends. The success of the Company’s business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that the Company offers, including, among other things: • general economic, industry, and weather conditions; • the performance of the financial, equity, and credit markets; • current and expected unemployment levels; • crude oil prices that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; • the level of consumer debt; • the level of consumer savings; • interest rates; • tax rates and policies; • consumer confidence in future economic conditions; and • war, terrorism, and other hostilities. 7 Table of Contents Additionally, several of the Company’s stores are in tourist markets, including the flagship SFA New York store. A downturn in economic conditions or other events such as terrorist activity could impact travel and thus negatively affect the results of operations for stores located within these tourist markets. Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and its impact on air travel, and sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. and internationally could also unfavorably impact results of the stores located within these tourist markets. The Company’s business and results of operations are also subject to uncertainties arising out of world events. These uncertainties may include a global economic slowdown, changes in consumer spending or travel, an increase in gasoline and commodity prices, epidemics, and the economic consequences of natural disasters, military action, political events or terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity). Any future events arising as a result of terrorist activity, natural disasters or other world events may have a material impact on the Company’s business, its ability to source products, results of operations, and financial condition. The Company’s flagship SFA New York store is especially susceptible to volatility in the financial markets and employment and compensation trends in the financial sector. The Company is restricted in its ability to incur additional debt which may affect its ability to adequately finance its operations. The Company’s revolving credit facility, senior notes, and 2.0% convertible notes contain restrictions on liens, and sale/leaseback transactions, and its revolving credit facility also contains a restriction on additional indebtedness, in each case, subject to certain limited exceptions. These restrictions under the revolving credit agreement and the outstanding notes may affect the Company’s ability to obtain additional debt financing or financing on favorable terms if its cash flow from operations and funds available under its revolving credit facility are insufficient to satisfy its working capital requirements. The Company is unable to predict the impact of potential disruptions in the credit markets and the resulting costs or constraints in obtaining financing on its business and financial results. The Company’s principal sources of cash come from the Company’s operating activities and borrowings under its revolving credit facility. During certain periods in the past, disruptions in the credit markets have had a significant adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have affected the cost of capital available to the Company. The Company cannot predict with any certainty the impact of any further disruption in the credit environment or any resulting material impact on its liquidity, future financing costs, or financial results. The Company is dependent on its relationships with certain designers, vendors, and other sources of merchandise. The Company’s relationships with established and emerging designers are a key factor in its position as a retailer of luxury merchandise, and a substantial portion of its revenues are attributable to its sales of designer merchandise. Many of the Company’s key vendors limit the number of retail outlets they use to sell their merchandise, and competition among luxury retailers to obtain and sell these goods is intense. The Company’s relationships with its designers have been a significant contributor to its past success. Although the Company has supply arrangements with some of its merchandising sources, there can be no assurance that such sources will continue to meet the Company’s quality, style, and volume requirements. Moreover, nearly all of the top designer brands sold by the Company are also sold by competing retailers, and many of these top designer brands also have their own dedicated retail stores. If one or more of these top designers were to cease providing the Company with adequate supplies of merchandise or, conversely, were to increase sales of merchandise through its own stores or to the stores of other competitors, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. In addition, any decline in the popularity or quality of any of these designer brands could adversely affect the Company’s business. 8 Table of Contents The Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected by weather conditions and natural disasters. The Company’s business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold or wet weather in the spring or summer affect consumer apparel purchases and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, severe weather conditions such as winter snowstorms or natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, and floods may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The retail industry is intensely competitive. As a retailer offering a broad selection of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics, and gift items, the Company currently competes with a diverse group of retailers, including e-commerce retailers, which sell, among other products, products similar to those of the Company. The Company also competes in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of products that the Company sells. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition including: • increased operational efficiencies of competitors; • competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; • expansion of product offerings by existing competitors; • entry by new competitors into markets in which the Company currently operates; and • adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods. The Company may not be able to continue to compete successfully with its existing or new competitors, and prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by its competitors may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company faces risks associated with consumer preferences, demand, and fashion trends. Changes in consumer preferences, demand and interest could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, fashion trends could materially impact sales. Success in the retail business depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to anticipate consumer preferences and demand. Early order commitments often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. If the Company fails to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences and demand, it could experience lower sales, excess inventories, and lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company faces a number of risks in opening new stores. As part of its growth strategy, the Company could potentially increase the total number of stores, which may include opening new stores in both new and existing markets. The Company may not be able to operate any new stores profitably. The success of any future store openings will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including the following: • the ability of management to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; • the ability to attract appropriate vendors; 9 Table of Contents • the competition for suitable store sites; • the ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; • the availability of employees to staff new stores and the Company’s ability to hire, train, motivate, and retain store personnel; and • the ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. In future years, the Company may enter into additional markets. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends, and discretionary spending patterns than its existing markets, which may cause new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in existing markets. The loss of, or disruption in, the Company’s centralized distribution centers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. The Company depends on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which relies on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of distribution centers. Although the Company believes that its receiving and distribution process is efficient and that the Company has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or other shipping problems may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to the Company’s stores. Additionally, freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices. Fuel prices affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution centers and outbound freight from the distribution centers to the Company’s stores. Although the Company maintains business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that the Company’s insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to the Company, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any reason. Loss of the Company’s trademarks and service marks or damage to the Company’s brand could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company owns many trademarks and service marks including, but not limited to, “Saks Fifth Avenue,” “Saks & Company,” “SFA,” “S5A,” “The 5TH Avenue Club,” “SAKSFIRST,” “Saks Fifth Avenue Men’s Collection,” and “OFF 5TH.” Management believes its trademarks and service marks are important and that the loss of certain of its trademarks or trade names, particularly the store nameplates, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Many of the Company’s trademarks and service marks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, the Company has a well-recognized brand that it believes represents unsurpassed customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to the Company’s brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. Fluctuations in foreign currency could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its inventory from foreign suppliers whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Although fluctuations in the Euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate have the largest impact on the Company’s business, the Company procures goods from many countries and, consequently, is affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries from which the Company purchases goods. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase the Company’s cost of goods sold. If the Company is unable to pass such cost increases on to its customers or the higher cost of the products results in decreased consumption, gross margins and ultimately earnings would decrease. 10 Table of Contents If the Company does not have the ability to successfully upgrade, maintain and secure our information systems to support the needs of the organization, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company relies heavily on information systems to manage operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly makes investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. The reliability and capacity of information systems is critical. Despite the Company’s preventative efforts, its systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. Any disruptions affecting the Company’s information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company’s ability to continue to operate its business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of the Company’s information systems to operate in accordance with its disaster recovery and business continuity plans. A privacy breach could adversely affect the Company’s business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the Company. The regulatory environment and industry standards surrounding information security and privacy continue to evolve in response to increased threats to information security. In addition, customers have a high expectation that the Company will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage the Company’s reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or litigation resulting in a decrease in the Company’s earnings. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes the Company to possible liabilities and losses. A significant percentage of the Company’s SFA stores and one OFF 5TH store are owned. The remainder of the Company’s SFA and OFF 5TH stores are leased. Accordingly, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the assets could decrease, and costs to operate stores could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, and supply or demand for the use of the store, which may result from competition from similar stores in the area, as well as liability for environmental conditions. Store leases generally require the Company to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. The Company generally cannot terminate these leases. If a store is not profitable, and the Company decides to close it, the Company may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, the Company may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause the Company to close stores in desirable locations. If an existing owned store is not profitable, and the Company decides to close it, the Company may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. In addition, the Company may not be able to close an unprofitable owned or leased store due to an existing operating covenant which may cause the Company to operate the location at a loss which could result in an impairment charge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant. The name, age, and position held with the Company for each of the executive officers of the Company are set forth below. Name Age Position Stephen I. Sadove 59 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Ronald L. Frasch 61 President and Chief Merchandising Officer Michael A. Brizel 54 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Jennifer S. de Winter 50 Executive Vice President of Stores Marc J. Metrick 37 Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer Christine A. Morena 55 Executive Vice President of Human Resources Michael Rodgers 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Information and Operations Officer Robert T. Wallstrom 45 President, OFF 5TH and Executive Vice President Kevin G. Wills 45 Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Stephen I. Sadove was named Chief Executive Officer of the Company in January 2006 and assumed the additional role of Chairman of the Board of Directors in May 2007. Mr. Sadove joined the Company in January 2002 as Vice Chairman and assumed the additional responsibility of Chief Operating Officer in March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sadove served as Senior Vice President of Bristol-Myers Squibb and President of Bristol-Myers Squibb Worldwide Beauty Care from 1996 until January 2002. From 1991 until 1996, Mr. Sadove held various other executive positions with Bristol-Myers Squibb. From 1975 until 1991, Mr. Sadove held various positions of increasing responsibility with General Foods USA. Ronald L. Frasch was named President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company in February 2007. Mr. Frasch joined SFA in January 2004, served in a non-executive capacity through November 2004, and held the post of Vice Chairman and Chief Merchant of SFA from November 2004 until January 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Neiman Marcus Group’s Bergdorf Goodman from April 2000 until January 2004. Prior to that, he held merchandising and executive posts with other companies including GFT USA, Escada USA, Neiman Marcus, and SFA. Michael A. Brizel joined the Company in April 2007 and was named to the post of Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2007. Mr. Brizel served in a variety of positions of increasing responsibility with The Reader’s Digest Association, Inc. between 1989 and April 2007, including Senior Vice President and General Counsel, a position he assumed in 2002. Mr. Brizel was a member of the legal department of General Foods Corporation from 1983 to 1989 and an associate with the New York law firm of Summit, Rovins and Feldesman (and its predecessors) from 1980 to 1983. Jennifer S. de Winter was named Executive Vice President of Stores in June 2008. She joined Saks Fifth Avenue in 1995 and held various merchandising positions of increasing responsibility, including the post of Group Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager of Fashion and Fine Jewelry, Watches, Women’s Shoes, Handbags, and Soft Accessories from May 2001 until June 2008. Ms. de Winter began her retail career in 1983 at Macy’s, where she held various merchandising positions through 1995 including Vice President, Divisional Merchandise Manager. Marc J. Metrick was named Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the Company in June 2010. Mr. Metrick joined the Company in June 1995 as an executive trainee. From June 1997 until February 2007, he served in various planning roles, including Vice President—Merchandise Planning from March 2005 until February 2007. Mr. Metrick was promoted to Group Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer in February 2007, a post he held until June 2010. 12 Table of Contents Christine A. Morena joined the Company in January 2007 as Executive Vice President of Human Resources. Ms. Morena spent her career from 1976 through 2006 with AT&T Inc., where she held various positions of increasing responsibility, including Senior Vice President of Human Resources for AT&T Corporation, a subsidiary of AT&T Inc., a position she held from 2002 through 2006. Michael Rodgers was named Executive Vice President and Chief Information and Operations Officer for the Company in February 2008. Mr. Rodgers joined McRae’s, Inc. (acquired by the Company in 1994) in 1993 as Director of Credit. He was promoted to Vice President of Credit for the Company in 1996 and to Senior Vice President of Credit in 1997, a position he held until 2002. Mr. Rodgers served as Executive Vice President of Operations from 2002 until April 2007. Mr. Rodgers served as Executive Vice President of Information Technology, Operations and Credit for the Company from May 2007 through January 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he held credit management positions with Boscov’s and Woodward & Lothrop. Robert T. Wallstrom was named President, OFF 5TH and Executive Vice President of the Company in June 2010. Mr. Wallstrom joined the Company in June 1995 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of the SFA flagship store in New York City between May 2002 and January 2007. He served as President, OFF 5TH and Group Senior Vice President of the Company from February 2007 through May 2010. Prior to joining the Company, he was a store manager for Macy’s/Bullocks. Kevin G. Wills was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company in May 2007. Mr. Wills joined the Company in September 1997 and has served in the following capacities: Vice President of Financial Reporting from September 1997 to August 1998; Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning from September 1998 to August 1999; Senior Vice President of Planning and Administration of Saks Department Store Group from September 1999 to January 2003; Executive Vice President of Operations for Parisian from February 2003 to May 2005; and Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer from May 2005 until May 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Wills was Vice President and Controller for the Tennessee Valley Authority and before that, he was an audit manager with Coopers and Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP). 