Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. 6 A decline in the demand for luxury goods could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. As a result of the sale of the SDSG businesses the Company has become primarily focused on the luxury retail sector. SFA stores, Off Fifth stores and www.saks.com offer a wide assortment of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics and gift items. All of the goods that the Company sells are discretionary items. Consequently, a downturn in the economy or difficult economic conditions may result in fewer customers shopping in the Company’s stores or online. In response, the Company may have to increase the duration and/or frequency of promotional events and offer larger discounts in order to attract customers, which would increase expenses and adversely affect results of operations. Poor economic conditions affect consumer spending and may significantly harm the Company’s business. The retail industry is continuously subject to domestic and international economic trends. The success of the Company’s business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that the Company offers, including, among other things: • General economic, industry and weather conditions; • High crude oil prices, that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; • The level of consumer debt; • Interest rates; • Tax rates and policies; • War, terrorism and other hostilities; and • Consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Changes in consumer confidence and fluctuations in financial markets can influence cyclical trends, particularly in the luxury sector. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for discretionary items and may force the Company to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand may also require increased marketing and promotional expenses. Additionally, a number of the Company’s stores are in tourist markets, including the flagship SFA New York store. A downturn in economic conditions or other events such as terrorist activity could impact travel and thus negatively affect the results of operations for stores located within these tourist markets. Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and its impact on air travel and sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. and internationally could also unfavorably impact results of the stores located within these tourist markets. The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a broad range of uncertainties arising out of world events. The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to uncertainties arising out of world events, especially as these events may affect U.S. tourism. These uncertainties may include a global economic slowdown, changes in consumer spending or travel, an increase in gasoline and commodity prices, epidemics and the economic consequences of natural disasters, military action or terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity). Any future events arising as a result of terrorist activity, natural disasters or other world events may have a material impact on the Company’s business, its ability to source products, results of operations and financial condition in the future. 7 The Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected by weather conditions and natural disasters. The Company’s business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold or wet weather in the spring or summer affect consumer apparel purchases and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The retail industry is intensely competitive. As a retailer offering a broad selection of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics and gift items, the Company currently competes against a diverse group of retailers, including e-commerce retailers, which sell, among other products, products similar to those of the Company. The Company also competes in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of products that the Company sells. Following the sale of the Company’s SDSG businesses, the Company has become less diversified and is now reliant on its luxury retail business. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition including: • Increased operational efficiencies of competitors; • Competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; • Expansion of product offerings by existing competitors; • Entry by new competitors into markets in which the Company currently operates; and • Adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods. The Company may not be able to continue to compete successfully with its existing or new competitors, or be assured that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by its competitors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is dependent on its relationships with certain designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise. The Company’s relationships with established and emerging designers are a key factor in its position as a retailer of high-fashion merchandise, and a substantial portion of its revenues are attributable to its sales of designer merchandise. Many of the Company’s key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise and competition among luxury retailers to obtain and sell these goods is intense. The Company’s relationships with its designers have been a significant contributor to its past success. The Company has no guaranteed supply arrangements with its principal merchandising sources. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such sources will continue to meet the Company’s quality, style and volume requirements. Moreover, nearly all of the top designer brands sold by the Company are also sold by competing retailers, and many of these top designer brands also have their own dedicated retail stores. If one or more of these top designers were to cease providing the Company with adequate supplies of merchandise or, conversely, were to increase sales of merchandise through its own stores or to the stores of other competitors, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. In addition, any decline in the popularity or quality of any of these designer brands could adversely affect its business. 8 The Company faces risks associated with consumer preferences and fashion trends. Changes in consumer preferences or consumer interest could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, fashion trends could materially impact sales. Success in the retail business depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to anticipate consumer preferences. Early order commitments often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. If the Company fails to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences, it could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company faces a number of risks in opening new stores. As part of its growth strategy, the Company could potentially increase the total number of stores, which may include opening new stores in both new and existing markets. The Company may not be able to operate any new stores profitably. Further, new stores may not achieve operating results similar to those of its existing stores. The success of any future store openings will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including the following: • The ability of management to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; • The ability to attract appropriate vendors; • The competition for suitable store sites; • The ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; • The availability of employees to staff new stores and the Company’s ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel; and • The ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. In future years, the Company may enter into additional markets. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than its existing markets, which may cause new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in existing markets. The loss of, or disruption in, the Company’s centralized distribution centers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. The Company depends on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of distribution centers. Although the Company believes that its receiving and distribution process is efficient, and the Company has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to the Company’s stores. Additionally, freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices. Fuel prices affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution centers and outbound freight from the distribution centers to the Company’s stores. Although the Company maintains business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that the Company’s insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to the Company, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any reason. 9 The Company is dependent on external funding sources, which may not make available sufficient funds when the Company needs them. The Company, like other retailers, relies on external funding sources to finance a portion of its operations and growth. Management currently believes that the Company’s cash flow from operations and funds available under its revolving credit facility will satisfy its capital requirements for the next 12 months. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing is dependent upon its future operating performance, general economic and competitive conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which the Company cannot control. Loss of the Company’s trademarks and service marks or damage to the Company’s brand could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. The Company owns many trademarks and service marks including, but not limited to, “Saks Fifth Avenue,” “SFA,” “S5A,” “The Fifth Avenue Club,” “SAKSFIRST,” “SFA Signature,” “SFA Classic,” “SFA Sport.” “Off 5th,” and “Club Libby Lu.” Management believes its trademarks and service marks are important and that the loss of certain of its trademarks or trade names, particularly the store nameplates, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Many of the Company’s trademarks and service marks are registered in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, the Company has a well-recognized brand that it believes represents unsurpassed customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to the Company’s brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. Fluctuations in foreign currency could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. The Company purchases a substantial portion of its inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to the Company is affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the dollar. Although fluctuations in the Euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate have the largest impact on the Company’s business, it procures goods from many countries and, consequently, is affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries from which the Company purchases goods. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase the Company’s cost of goods sold. If the Company is unable to pass such cost increases on to its customers or the higher cost of the products results in decreased consumption, gross margins, and ultimately earnings, would decrease. A privacy breach could adversely affect the Company’s business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the Company. In particular, the Company utilizes customer data captured through the use of proprietary credit cards to develop advertising and promotional events. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. In addition, customers have a high expectation that the Company will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage the Company’s reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes the Company to possible liabilities and losses. The majority of the SFA stores are owned while all of the Off Fifth and CLL stores are leased. Accordingly, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the assets could decrease, and their costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the store, which may result from competition 10 from similar stores in the area, as well as liability for environmental conditions. Store leases generally require the Company to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. The Company generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and the Company decides to close it, the Company may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, the Company may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause the Company to close stores in desirable locations. If an existing owned store is not profitable, and the Company decides to close it, the Company may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. In addition, the Company may not be able to close an unprofitable owned store due to an existing operating covenant which may cause the Company to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant. The name, age, and position held with the Company for each of the executive officers of the Company are set forth below. Name Age Position Stephen I. Sadove 56 Chairman of the Board of Directors; Chief Executive Officer; Director Ronald L. Frasch 58 President and Chief Merchandising Officer Julia A. Bentley 49 Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications; Corporate Secretary Carolyn R. Biggs 60 Executive Vice President of Stores and Store Operations Michael A. Brizel 51 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Denise Incandela 43 President, Saks Direct and Group Senior Vice President Thomas G. Matthews 53 Group Senior Vice President of Asset Protection,, Logistics; Store Planning, and Construction; Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Marc J. Metrick 34 Group Senior Vice President of Merchandise Planning and Chief Strategy Officer Christine A. Morena 52 Executive Vice President of Human Resources Michael Rodgers 43 Executive Vice President of Service Operations and Chief Information Officer Terron E. Schaefer 63 Group Senior Vice President of Creative and Marketing Robert T. Wallstrom 42 President, Off Fifth and Group Senior Vice President Kevin G. Wills 42 Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer Stephen I. Sadove was named Chief Executive Officer of the Company in January 2006 and assumed the additional role of Chairman of the Board of Directors in May 2007. Mr. Sadove joined the Company in January 2002 as Vice Chairman and assumed the additional responsibility of Chief Operating Officer in March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sadove served as Senior Vice President of Bristol-Myers Squibb and President of Bristol-Myers Squibb Worldwide Beauty Care from 1996 until January 2002. From 1991 until 1996, Mr. Sadove held various other executive positions with Bristol-Myers Squibb. From 1975 until 1991, Mr. Sadove held various positions of increasing responsibility with General Foods USA. Ronald L. Frasch was named President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company in February 2007. Mr. Frasch joined SFA in January 2004, served in a non-executive capacity through November 2004, and held the post of Vice Chairman and Chief Merchant of SFA from November 2004 until January 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Neiman Marcus Group’s Bergdorf Goodman from April 2000 until January 2004. Prior to that, he held merchandising and executive posts with other companies including GFT USA, Escada USA, Neiman Marcus, and SFA. Julia A. Bentley has served as Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications and Corporate Secretary of the Company since September 1997. Ms. Bentley joined the Company in 1987 and has held various financial positions, including Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, she was an audit manager with Ernst & Young. Carolyn R. Biggs was named Executive Vice President of Stores and Store operations in February 2008. Ms. Biggs served as Executive Vice President of Stores, Store Visual, Planning and Construction from February 2007 12 through January 2008. She joined the Company in July 1993 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President and Director of Stores for SFA. Prior to joining the Company, she was General Manager of I. Magnin from 1988 to 1993 and held various merchandising positions for Bullocks from 1973 to 1988. Michael A. Brizel joined the Company in April 2007 and was named to the post of Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 2007. Mr. Brizel served in a variety of positions of increasing responsibility with The Reader’s Digest Association, Inc. between 1989 and April 2007, including Senior Vice President and General Counsel, a position he assumed in 2002. Prior to Reader’s Digest, Mr. Brizel was a member of the legal department of General Foods Corporation from 1983-1989 and an associate with the New York law firm of Summit, Rovins and Feldesman, from 1980-1983. Denise Incandela was promoted to President, Saks Direct and Group Senior Vice President of the Company in February 2007. Ms. Incandela joined the Company in July 1999 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President of Saks Direct. Prior to joining the Company, she was a senior consultant with McKinsey & Company. Thomas G. Matthews was named Group Senior Vice President of Asset Protection, Logistics, Store Planning and Construction and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of the Company in February 2008. Mr. Matthews served as Group Senior Vice President of Asset Protection, Store Operations and Logistics and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer from February 2007 until January 2008. From April 1999 until January 2007, Mr. Matthews served as Group Senior Vice President, Asset Protection, Store Operations, Ethics and Compliance. He joined the Company in 1993 as Vice President — Loss Prevention. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Matthews served as Senior Vice President — Loss Prevention for Ann Taylor, Inc. from 1989 until 1992 and in various loss prevention positions for Lord & Taylor from 1976 to 1989. Marc J. Metrick was named Group Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the Company in February 2007. Mr. Metrick joined the Company in June 1995 as an executive trainee. Beginning in June 1997, Mr. Metrick served in various planning roles, including Vice President — Merchandise Planning and Senior Vice President — Strategic Planning. Christine A. Morena joined the Company in January 2007 as Executive Vice President of Human Resources. Ms. Morena spent her career from 1976 through 2006 with AT&T Inc., where she held various positions of increasing responsibility, including Senior Vice President of Human Resources for AT&T Corporation, a subsidiary of AT&T Inc. Michael Rodgers was named Executive Vice President of Service Operations and Chief Information Officer for the Company in February 2008. Mr. Rodgers served as Executive Vice President of Information Technology, Operations and Credit for the Company from May 2007 through January 2008. Mr. Rodgers joined McRae’s, Inc. (acquired by the Company in 1994) in 1993 as Director of Credit. He was promoted to Vice President of Credit for the Company in 1996 and to Senior Vice President of Credit in 1997, a position he held until 2002. Mr. Rodgers served as Executive Vice President of Operations from 2002 until April 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he held credit management positions with Boscov’s and Woodward & Lothrop. Terron E. Schaefer joined the Company in March 2004 as Senior Vice President of Marketing and was elevated to the post of Group Senior Vice President, Creative and Marketing in September 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Schaefer was Worldwide Creative Director for Simon Property Group from September 2003 until February 2004 and was the Co-founder and Co-CEO of style365.com from August 1998 to July 2002. He served as Senior Vice President, Marketing — Worldwide Retail for Warner Brothers from 1995 to 1998; and between 1988 to 1995 his retail experience included leadership positions in marketing at Macy’s West, Galerias 13 Preciados, and Harrods. Mr. Schaefer also served in various leadership positions in marketing at Bloomingdale’s, William Filene and Sons, and at Hill Holliday Connors Cosmopulos. He began his marketing career with Doyle Dane Bernbach, where he rose to Vice President, International. Robert T. Wallstrom was named President, Off Fifth and Group Senior Vice President of the Company in February 2007. Mr. Wallstrom joined the Company in June 1995 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of the SFA flagship store in New York City. Prior to joining the Company, he was a store manager for Macy’s/Bullocks. Kevin G. Wills was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company in May 2007. Mr. Wills served as Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer from May 2005 until May 2007. He joined the Company in September 1997 and has served in the following capacities: Vice President of Financial Reporting from September 1997 to August 1998; Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning from September 1998 to August 1999; Senior Vice President of Planning and Administration of SDSG from September 1999 to January 2003; and Executive Vice President of Operations for Parisian from February 2003 to May 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Wills was Vice President and Controller for the Tennessee Valley Authority and before that, he was an audit manager with Coopers and Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP). 