Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. Poor economic conditions affect consumer spending and may significantly harm the Company’s business. The retail industry is continuously subject to domestic and international economic trends. The success of the Company’s business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that the Company offers, including, among other things: • General economic, industry and weather conditions; • High crude oil prices, that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; • The level of consumer debt; 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Interest rates; • Tax rates and policies; • War, terrorism and other hostilities; and • Consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Changes in consumer confidence and fluctuations in financial markets can influence cyclical trends, particularly in the luxury sector. The merchandise the Company sells generally consists of discretionary items. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for discretionary items and may force the Company to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. Additionally, a number of the Company’s stores are in tourist markets, including the flagship SFA New York store. A downturn in economic conditions or other events such as terrorist activity could impact travel and thus negatively affect the results of operations for stores located within these tourist markets. Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and its impact on air travel and sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. and internationally could also unfavorably impact results of the stores located within these tourist markets. The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to a broad range of uncertainties arising out of world events. The Company’s business and results of operations are subject to uncertainties arising out of world events, especially as these events may affect U.S. tourism. These uncertainties may include a global economic slowdown, changes in consumer spending or travel, an increase in gasoline and commodity prices, epidemics and the economic consequences of natural disasters, military action or terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity). Any future events arising as a result of terrorist activity, natural disasters or other world events may have a material impact on the Company’s business, its ability to source products, results of operations and financial condition in the future. The Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected by weather conditions and natural disasters. The Company’s business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold or wet weather in the spring or summer affect consumer apparel purchases and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, etc. may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The retail industry is intensely competitive. As a retailer offering a broad selection of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics and gift items, the Company currently competes against a diverse group of retailers, including e-commerce retailers, which sell, among other products, products similar to those of the Company. The Company also competes in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of products that the Company sells. Following the sale of the Company’s SDSG businesses, the Company has become less diversified and is now reliant on its luxury retail business. A number 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition including: • Increased operational efficiencies of competitors; • Competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; • Expansion by existing competitors; • Entry by new competitors into markets in which the Company currently operates; and • Adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods. The Company may not be able to continue to compete successfully with its existing or new competitors, or be assured that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by its competitors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is dependent on its relationships with certain designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise. The Company’s relationships with established and emerging designers are a key factor in its position as a retailer of high-fashion merchandise, and a substantial portion of its revenues are attributable to its sales of designer merchandise. Many of the Company’s key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise and competition among luxury retailers to obtain and sell these goods is intense. The Company’s relationships with its designers have been a significant contributor to its past success. The Company has no guaranteed supply arrangements with its principal merchandising sources. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such sources will continue to meet the Company’s quality, style and volume requirements. Moreover, nearly all of the brands of the Company’s top designers are sold by competing retailers, and many of these top designers also have their own dedicated retail stores. If one or more of the Company’s top designers were to cease providing the Company with adequate supplies of merchandise or, conversely, were to increase sales of merchandise through its own stores or to the stores of other competitors, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. In addition, any decline in the popularity or quality of any of the Company’s designer brands could adversely affect its business. The Company faces risks associated with consumer preferences and fashion trends. Changes in consumer preferences or consumer interest could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, fashion trends could materially impact sales. Success in the retail business depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to anticipate consumer preferences. Early order commitments often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. If the Company fails to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences, it could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company faces a number of risks in opening new stores. Management remains confident regarding the future prospects for SFA and Off Fifth. SFA has a highly recognized brand name in luxury retailing, a top quality real estate portfolio led by the New York flagship store, and strong vendor relationships. Management plans to capitalize on the growth prospects and competitive dynamics of the luxury sector. As part of its growth strategy, the Company could potentially increase the total number of stores, which may include opening new stores in both new and existing markets. The Company may not be able to operate any new stores profitably. Further, new stores may not achieve operating results similar to 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements those of its existing stores. The success of any future store openings will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including the following: • The ability of management to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; • The ability to attract appropriate vendors; • The competition for suitable store sites; • The ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; • The availability of employees to staff new stores and the Company’s ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel; and • The ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. In future years, the Company may enter into additional markets. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than its existing markets, which may cause new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in existing markets. The loss of, or disruption in, the Company’s centralized distribution centers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operations. The Company depends on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of distribution centers. Although the Company believes that its receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to the Company’s stores. Additionally, freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices. Fuel prices affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution centers and outbound freight from the distribution centers to the Company’s stores. Although the Company maintains business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that the Company’s insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to the Company, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any reason. The Company is dependent on external funding sources, which may not make available sufficient funds when the Company needs them. The Company, like other retailers, relies on external funding sources to finance a portion of its operations and growth. Management currently believes that the Company’s cash flow from operations and funds available under its revolving credit facility will satisfy its capital requirements for the next 12 months. The Company’s ability to obtain additional financing is dependent upon its future operating performance, general economic and competitive conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which the Company cannot control. The Company believes that its previously disclosed internal investigations, and related inquiries by the SEC and the Office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, adversely affected the Company’s results of operations for its 2005 fiscal year, which adverse effect could continue. The Company understands that the inquiries by the SEC and the Office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York are continuing. The Company understands that these inquiries were initiated as a 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements result of previously disclosed internal investigations by the Company. The Company believes that the publicly disclosed findings of the internal investigations, and the restatement by the Company of previously published financial information as reflected in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2004, adversely affected the Company’s ability, at least temporarily, to collect vender allowances from some SFA merchandise vendors and may have damaged, at least temporarily, SFA’s reputation among SFA’s merchandise vendors and the investment community generally. These adverse effects could continue to negatively impact the future results of SFA’s operations and the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s internal investigations also resulted in disciplinary actions being taken against a number of SFA associates. These disciplinary actions eliminated the employment positions of several experienced merchandising associates and adversely affected associate morale and focus on SFA’s business. The adverse effects described in this paragraph, which the Company believes are diminishing with the passage of time, could continue. The inquiries by the SEC and the Office of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York could result in enforcement action or actions being taken against the Company, including the imposition of fines and penalties that could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. During 2005, the Company incurred significantly larger legal and related fees, compared to prior periods, as a result of the investigations. These investigation-related legal and other fees were substantially lower in 2006 than in 2005. The Company expects that it will continue to incur legal fees with respect to the investigations, the end and outcome of which the Company cannot predict. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant. The name, age, and position held with the Company for each of the executive officers of the Company are set forth below. Name Age Position R. Brad Martin 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors; Director Stephen I. Sadove 55 Chief Executive Officer; Director James A. Coggin 64 President and Chief Administrative Officer Douglas E. Coltharp 45 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ronald L. Frasch 57 President and Chief Merchandising Officer Charles J. Hansen 59 Executive Vice President and General Counsel Christine A. Morena 51 Executive Vice President of Human Resources Kevin G. Wills 41 Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer Julia A. Bentley 48 Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications; Corporate Secretary Carolyn R. Biggs 59 Executive Vice President of Stores, Store Visual, Planning and Construction Denise Incandela 42 President, Saks Direct and Group Senior Vice President Thomas G. Matthews 52 Group Senior Vice President, Asset Protection and Store Operations, Ethics and Compliance Marc J. Metrick 33 Group Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer Terron E. Schaefer 62 Senior Vice President of Marketing Robert T. Wallstrom 41 President, Off Fifth and Group Senior Vice President R. Brad Martin has served as a Director since 1984 and became Chairman of the Board in February 1987. He served as Chief Executive Officer from July 1989 until January 2006. Stephen I. Sadove was named Chief Executive Officer of the Company in January 2006. He joined the Company in January 2002 as Vice Chairman and assumed the additional responsibility of Chief Operating Officer in March 2004. Mr. Sadove served as Senior Vice President of Bristol-Myers Squibb and President of Bristol-Myers Squibb Worldwide Beauty Care from 1996 until January 2002. From 1991 until 1996, Mr. Sadove held various other executive positions with Bristol-Myers Squibb. From 1975 until 1991, Mr. Sadove held various positions of increasing responsibility with General Foods USA. James A. Coggin was named President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company in November 1998. Mr. Coggin served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from March 1995 to November 1998 and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company from March 1994 to March 1995. From 1971 to March 1994, Mr. Coggin served in various management and executive positions with McRae’s, Inc. Mr. Coggin will retire from the Company on May 4, 2007. Douglas E. Coltharp joined the Company in November 1996 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From 1987 to November 1996, Mr. Coltharp was employed by NationsBank (currently Bank of America), where he held a variety of positions including the post of Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Ronald L. Frasch, age 57, was named President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company in February 2007. He held the post of Vice Chairman and Chief Merchant of Saks Fifth Avenue from November 2004 until January 2007. He joined Saks Fifth Avenue in January 2004 and served in a non-executive capacity through November 2004. Frasch served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Neiman Marcus Group’s Bergdorf Goodman from April 2000 until January 2004. Prior to that, he held merchandising and executive posts with other companies including GFT USA, Escada USA, Neiman Marcus, and Saks Fifth Avenue. Charles J. Hansen was promoted to Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company in September 2003. He served in several capacities in the Company’s Law Department from February 1998 to September 2003, most recently as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Prior to that, he served in various legal capacities with Carson Pirie Scott & Co. and its predecessors, including the post of Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary. Prior to that, he was an attorney with Baxter International, Inc. and Shearman & Sterling. Christine A. Morena joined the Company in January 2007 as Executive Vice President of Human Resources. Ms. Morena spent her career from 1976 through 2006 with AT&T Inc., where she held various positions of increasing responsibility. Morena most recently served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources for AT&T Corporation, a subsidiary of AT&T Inc. Kevin G. Wills was appointed to Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer, the Company’s principal financial officer, in May 2005. He joined the Company in September 1997 and has served in the following capacities: Vice President of Financial Reporting from September 1997 to August 1998; Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning from September 1998 to August 1999; Senior Vice President of Planning and Administration of SDSG from September 1999 to January 2003; and Executive Vice President of Operations for Parisian from February 2003 to May 2005. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Wills was Vice President and Controller for the Tennessee Valley Authority and before that, he was an audit manager with Coopers and Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP). Julia A. Bentley has served as Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications and Corporate Secretary of the Company since September 1997. Ms. Bentley joined the Company in 1987 and has held various financial positions, including Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company she was an audit manager with Ernst & Young. Carolyn R. Biggs was named Executive Vice President of Stores, Store Visual, Planning and Construction effective February 2007. Ms. Biggs joined the Company in July 1993 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President and Director of Stores for SFA. Prior to the Company she was General Manager of I. Magnin from 1988 to 1993 and held various merchandising positions for Bullocks from 1973 to 1988. Denise Incandela was elevated to President, Saks Direct and Group Senior Vice President of the Company in February 2007. Ms. Incandela joined the Company in July 1999 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President of Saks Direct. Prior to the Company she was a senior consultant with McKinsey & Company. Thomas G. Matthews was named Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer in February 2007. Matthews assumed this role as well as continued his role as Group Senior Vice President Operations—Asset Projection—Logistics, which he has held since 2005. Matthews joined the Company in 1993 as Vice President—Loss Prevention. Prior to the Company he served as Senior Vice President—Loss Prevention for Ann Taylor, Inc. from 1989 until 1992 and in various loss prevention positions for Lord & Taylor from 1976 to 1989. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Marc J. Metrick was named Group Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the Company in February 2007. Metrick joined the Company in June 1995 as an executive trainee. Since June 1997, Metrick has served in various planning roles, including Senior Vice President — Merchandise Planning and Vice President — Strategic Planning. Terron E. Schaefer, joined the Company in March 2004 as Senior Vice President of Marketing. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Co-Founder and CEO of style365.com. Schaefer also served as Senior Vice President, Marketing — Worldwide Retail for Warner Brothers from 1995 to 1998, and between 1988 to 1995 his retail experience included leadership positions in marketing at Macy’s West, Galerias Preciados, and Harrods. Schaefer also served in various leadership positions in marketing at Bloomingdale’s and William Filene and Sons. He began his marketing career with Doyle Dane Bernbach where he rose to Vice President, International. Robert T. Wallstrom was named President, Off Fifth and Group Senior Vice President of the Company in February 2007. Wallstrom joined the Company in June 1995 and has held various leadership positions since that time, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of the SFA flagship store in New York City. Prior to the Company he was a store manager for Macy’s/Bullocks. The Company is consolidating its executive functions into the existing SFA corporate offices in New York City from Birmingham, Alabama. This consolidation is expected to be completed in the first half of 2007. Messrs. Coltharp, Hansen, and Wills each notified the Company that, for personal reasons, they would not relocate their place of employment from Birmingham, Alabama to New York City, and, as a consequence, each intends to resign effective May 4, 2007. 