Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. These risk factors should be considered when evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. Poor economic conditions have affected and may continue to affect consumer spending which has harmed and may continue to harm our business. The retail industry is continuously subject to domestic and international economic trends. We are focused on the luxury retail sector. SFA stores, Saks Direct and OFF 5TH stores offer a wide assortment of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics, and gift items. All of the goods that we sell are discretionary items. Changes in consumer confidence and fluctuations in financial markets can influence cyclical trends and consumer spending, particularly in the luxury sector. While economic conditions have improved since the downturn in the economy in 2008, they remain somewhat volatile. There can be no assurance that the economy will continue to improve or that we will be successful in sustaining profitability. During actual or perceived periods of economic downturn, fewer customers may shop at our stores and those that do may limit their purchases, which could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. In addition, in the event that we are unsuccessful in sustaining profitability, we may not be able to realize our net deferred tax assets, which would require us to record a valuation allowance that could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded. Our flagship SFA New York store is also susceptible to volatility in the financial markets and employment and compensation trends in the financial sector, as well as international tourism. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: ¡ general economic, industry, and weather conditions; ¡ the performance of the financial, equity, and credit markets; ¡ current and expected unemployment levels; ¡ crude oil prices that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; ¡ the level of consumer debt; ¡ the level of consumer savings; ¡ interest rates; ¡ tax rates and policies; ¡ consumer confidence in future economic conditions; and ¡ war, terrorism, and other hostilities. Any decrease in consumer spending could have a significant negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We are restricted in our ability to incur additional debt which may affect our ability to adequately finance our operations. Our revolving credit facility, senior notes, and 2.0% convertible notes contain restrictions on liens, and sale/leaseback transactions, and our revolving credit facility also contains restrictions on additional indebtedness, in each case, subject to certain limited exceptions. These restrictions under the revolving credit agreement and the outstanding notes may affect our ability to obtain additional debt financing or financing on favorable terms if our cash flow from operations and funds available under our revolving credit facility are insufficient to satisfy our working capital requirements. We are unable to predict the impact of potential disruptions in the credit markets and the resulting costs or constraints in obtaining financing on our business and financial results. Our principal sources of cash come from our operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Disruptions in the credit markets can have a significant adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and may affect the cost of capital available to us. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact of any future disruption in the credit environment or any resulting material impact on our liquidity, future financing costs, or financial results. We are dependent on our relationships with certain designers, vendors, and other sources of merchandise. Our relationships with established and emerging designers are a key factor in our position as a retailer of luxury merchandise, and a substantial portion of our revenues are attributable to our sales of designer merchandise. Many of our key vendors limit the number of retail outlets they use to sell their merchandise, and competition among retailers to obtain and sell these goods is intense. Our relationships with our designers have been a significant contributor to our past success. Although we have supply arrangements with some of our merchandising sources, there can be no assurance that such sources will continue to meet our quality, style, and volume requirements. Moreover, nearly all of the top designer brands sold by us are also sold by competing retailers, and many of these top designer brands also have their own dedicated retail stores and/or their own e-commerce sites. If one or more of these top designers were to cease providing us with adequate supplies of merchandise or, conversely, were to increase sales of merchandise through their own stores or to the stores of other competitors, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, any decline in the popularity or quality of any of these designer brands could adversely affect our business. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by events that are outside of our control. Our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold or wet weather in the spring or summer affect consumer apparel purchases and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, unforeseen events including war, terrorism and other international conflicts or political events, public health issues and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, and floods, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our supply chain operations, international trade or result in political or economic instability. Any of the foregoing events could result in property losses, reduced demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to obtain merchandise from our suppliers, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from stores located on the east coast and west coast of the United States. Any events which have a negative impact on the economies or consumer spending in those regions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, several of our stores are in tourist markets, including our flagship SFA New York store. A downturn in economic conditions, severe weather events or other events such as terrorist activity could impact travel and thus negatively affect the results of operations for stores located within these tourist markets. Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and its impact on air travel, and sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. and internationally could also unfavorably impact results of the stores located within these tourist markets. 9 Table of Contents Our business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail industry is intensely competitive. As a retailer offering a broad selection of luxury fashion apparel, shoes, accessories, jewelry, cosmetics, and gift items, we currently compete with a diverse group of competitors, many of which are omni-channel retailers, including traditional department stores, vendor-owned boutiques, specialty retailers, individual specialty apparel stores, designer boutiques, outlet stores, e-commerce and mail order retailers, and “flash sale” businesses, which sell, among other products, products similar to those that we sell. We compete for customers on the basis of fashion and trends; the selection, presentation, quality, and pricing of our merchandise; the customer experience, both in-store and online; our marketing initiatives and SaksFirst loyalty program; and the visual appeal and ambiance of our stores. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of products that we sell. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition including: ¡ increased operational efficiencies of competitors; ¡ competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; ¡ expansion of product offerings by existing competitors; ¡ entry by new competitors into markets in which we currently operate; and ¡ adoption by existing competitors of innovative retail sales methods. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, and prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors may have a material adverse effect on our business. We face risks associated with consumer preferences, demand, and fashion trends. Changes in consumer preferences, demand and interest could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, fashion trends could materially impact sales. Success in the retail business depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate consumer preferences and demand. Early order commitments often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. If we fail to anticipate preferences accurately and respond to consumer preferences and demand, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories, and lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends, in part, on the success of our strategies. Our success is dependent on our ability to identify, develop and execute our strategies. Our continued growth and success depends, in part, on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores, enhance and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis, and optimize store performance by closing under-performing stores. The success of any future store openings will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ¡ the ability to attract appropriate vendors; ¡ the competition for suitable store sites; ¡ the ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; ¡ the availability of associates to staff new stores and our ability to hire, train, motivate, and retain store personnel; and ¡ the ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. In the future, we may enter into additional markets. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends, and discretionary spending patterns than its existing markets, which may cause new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in existing markets. Our continued growth and success also depends, in part, on our ability to implement our omni-channel strategy. Omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments 10 Table of Contents by competitors. If we do not make, improve, and develop relevant technology timely and in a manner that appeals to our customers, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if there are performance issues with our customer-facing technology systems, we may experience a loss of customer confidence and sales, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. We continue to implement customer-oriented strategic programs designed to differentiate and strengthen our core merchandise content and service levels and expand and enhance our merchandise offerings. We also seek to improve the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs. If we fail to implement successfully some or all of these initiatives, we may be unable to retain or attract customers, which could adversely affect our financial results. The loss of, or disruption in, our centralized distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which relies on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of distribution centers. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient and that we have appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events; labor disagreements; or other shipping problems may result in the loss of inventory and/or delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers. Additionally, freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices. Fuel prices affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to the distribution centers and outbound freight from the distribution centers to our stores and customers. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, if any of the distribution centers are damaged or shut down for any reason. Loss of our trademarks and service marks or damage to our brand could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We own many trademarks and service marks including, but not limited to, “Saks Fifth Avenue,” “Saks & Company,” “SFA,” “S5A,” “The 5TH Avenue Club,” “SAKSFIRST,” “Saks Fifth Avenue Men’s Collection,” and “OFF 5TH.” We believe our trademarks and service marks are important and that the loss of certain of our trademarks or trade names, particularly the store nameplates, could have a material adverse effect on us. Many of our trademarks and service marks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we have a well-recognized brand that we believe represents a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation may negatively impact our sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. Fluctuations in foreign currency could have an adverse impact on our business. We purchase a substantial portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. Although fluctuations in the Euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate have the largest impact on our business, we procure goods from many countries and, consequently, are affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies of the countries from which we purchase goods. Accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase the cost of goods sold. If we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers or the higher cost of the products results in decreased consumption, gross margins and ultimately earnings would decrease. If we do not have the ability to successfully upgrade, maintain and secure our information systems to support the needs of the organization and increased and evolving cyber-security threats, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We rely heavily on information systems to manage operations, including a full range of retail, financial, planning, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. The reliability and capacity of information systems is critical. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable from time to time to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, power outages and other technical malfunctions. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or any delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or in integrating them with current systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business. In 11 Table of Contents addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. In 2012, we began a substantial multi-year transformation of and investment in our foundational merchandising, finance, and human resources systems. We have an orderly plan to transition our existing legacy systems to the new systems. However, we could experience disruption in our operations due to unexpected issues with employee hiring, retention, supply chain, and training and installation of equipment or software, among other things. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment and industry standards surrounding information security and privacy continue to evolve in response to increased threats to information security. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or litigation resulting in a decrease in our earnings. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. A significant percentage of our SFA stores and one of our OFF 5TH stores are owned. The remainder of our SFA and OFF 5TH stores are leased. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the assets could decrease, and costs to operate stores could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, and supply or demand for the use of the store, which may result from competition from similar stores in the area, as well as liability for environmental conditions. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot terminate these leases. If a store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. In addition, as the leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. If an existing owned store is not profitable, and we decide to close the store, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable owned or leased store due to an existing operating covenant which may cause us to operate the location at a loss which could result in an impairment charge. Failure to manage effectively these and other factors may affect our ability to build, purchase and lease new stores, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and future profitability. A small number of our shareholders could significantly influence our business. As of December 31, 2012, we believe that our largest five shareholders controlled approximately 59% of our common stock. These few significant shareholders, if they were to vote or otherwise act together, may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the company or our assets. This concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other shareholders to effect substantial changes in the company and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting a change in control of the company, which could deprive our other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the company. Further, these shareholders may have interests that differ from those of other shareholders and may vote in a way that is adverse to the interests of other shareholders. As a result, this concentration in ownership of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 