RISK FACTORS These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, or other unexpected events occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report and incorporated herein by reference, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Further, this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from the results contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Downturns in the disk drive manufacturing market and related markets may decrease our revenues and margins. The market for our products depends on economic conditions affecting the disk drive manufacturing and related markets. We believe that a majority of our finished unit sales are incorporated into disk drives manufactured by our customers for the desktop PC market. Because of this concentration in a single market, which we expect to continue, our business is linked to the success of the PC market. The PC market has historically been seasonal and cyclical, and has experienced periods of oversupply and reduced production levels, resulting in significantly reduced demand for disks and pricing pressures. The effect of these cycles on suppliers, including disk manufacturers, has been magnified by disk drive manufacturers’ practice of ordering components, including disks, in excess of their needs during periods of rapid growth, thereby increasing the severity of the drop in the demand for components during periods of reduced growth or contraction. Accordingly, downturns in the desktop PC market may cause disk drive manufacturers to delay or cancel projects, reduce their production, or reduce or cancel orders for our products. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in payment and collection, pricing pressures, and unused capacity, causing us to realize lower revenues and margins. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003, disk drive manufacturers appear to have overbuilt product, which resulted in an excess of supply of disk drives that was not fully corrected until approximately the third quarter of fiscal year 2004. If our production capacity is underutilized, our gross margin will be adversely affected and we could sustain significant losses. Our business is characterized by high fixed overhead costs including expensive plant facilities and production equipment. Our per-unit costs and our gross profit are significantly affected by the number of units we produce and the amount of our production capacity that we utilize. In the third quarter of 2004, we completed the installation of additional equipment, which increased our production capacity to approximately 24 million disks a quarter. Our finished disk shipments were below this capacity level in the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2004. If we are unable to utilize our expanded capacity, we may be unable to increase or sustain our gross margins. If our capacity utilization decreases for any reason, including lack of customer demand or cancellation or delay of customer orders, we could experience significantly higher unit production costs, lower margins and potentially significant losses, as occurred for several years prior to 2003. Underutilization of our production capacity could also result in equipment write-offs, restructuring charges, and employee layoffs. If our production capacity is underutilized for any reason, our financial results and our business would be severely harmed. If future demand for our products exceeds the production capability of our existing facilities, we may be required to invest significant capital expenditures to increase capacity or else risk losing market share. In the third quarter of 2004, we completed the installation of additional equipment, which increased our production capacity to approximately 24 million disks a quarter. With the completion of this installation, we believe that our ability to expand further our production capacity using our existing facilities is limited. As a 11 Table of Contents result, if demand for our products were to exceed significantly our current capacity levels, we may not be able to satisfy this increased demand. To increase our production capacity to meet significant increases in demand for our disks, we would be required to expand our existing facilities, construct new facilities, or acquire entities with additional production capacities. These alternatives would require significant capital investments by us and would require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. If we were unable to expand capacity on a timely basis to meet increases in demand, we could lose market opportunities for sales, and our market share could decline. Further, we cannot assure you that the increased demand for our disk products would continue for a sufficient period of time to recoup our capital investments associated with increasing our production capacity. We receive a large percentage of our net sales from only a few disk drive manufacturing customers, the loss of any of which would adversely affect our sales. Our customers are disk drive manufacturers. A relatively small number of disk drive manufacturers dominates the disk drive market. In 2004, four of these manufacturers (HGST, Maxtor, Seagate, and Western Digital) accounted for approximately 80% of worldwide hard disk drive sales. Accordingly, we expect that the success of our business will continue to depend on a limited number of customers that have comparatively strong bargaining power in negotiating contracts with us. In 2004, 47% of our net sales were to Maxtor, 29% were to HGST, and 14% were to Western Digital. In 2003, 37% of our net sales were to Maxtor, 17% were to HGST, and 38% were to Western Digital. If any one of our significant customers reduces its disk requirements, cancels existing orders or develops or expands capacity to produce its own disks, and we are unable to replace these orders with sales to new customers, our sales would be reduced and our business would suffer. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers, if our suppliers experience capacity constraints or production failures, our production, operating results and growth potential could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for some of the materials and equipment used in our manufacturing processes, including aluminum blanks, aluminum substrates, nickel plating solutions, polishing and texturing supplies, and sputtering target materials. For example, Kobe Steel, Ltd. is our sole supplier of aluminum blanks, which is a fundamental component in producing our disks. Further, as a result of current increased worldwide demand, the supply of sputtering target materials are constrained resulting in longer lead times and product allocation from certain suppliers. We rely on a single supplier, Heraeus Incorporated, for a substantial quantity of our sputtering target requirements. In addition, we also rely on OMG Fidelity, Inc. for supplies of nickel plating solutions. The supplier base has been weakened by the poor financial condition of the industry in recent years, and some suppliers have exited the business. Additionally, the increasing demand for many of these materials provides our sole-source suppliers with additional bargaining power. Our production capacity would be limited if one or more of these materials were to become unavailable or available in reduced quantities, or if we were unable to find alternative suppliers. For example, due to the significant growth in demand for our disk products in the fourth quarter of 2002, our sales were lower during the quarter than the available market opportunity due to our inability to acquire additional aluminum substrates. If our sources of materials and supplies were limited or unavailable for a significant period of time or the costs of such materials were to increase, our production, operating results, and ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. We had a history of operating losses, and emerged from chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2002. Despite operating profitability during each of our eight most recent fiscal quarters, we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain or improve our profitability in the future. In 2001, after defaulting on our debt obligations, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We emerged from chapter 11 bankruptcy in June 2002. Although we have been profitable in our most recent eight quarters, we had a history of losses prior to 2003. Due to the factors discussed in this Risk Factors section, including the very competitive, capital-intensive, and historically 12 Table of Contents cyclical nature of the disk and disk drive markets on which our business is dependent, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or improve our profitability in the future. Price competition may force us to lower our prices, causing our gross margin to suffer. We face significant price competition in the disk industry. High levels of competition have historically put downward pressure on prices per unit. Additionally, the average selling price of disks and disk drives rapidly declines over their commercial life as a result of technological enhancements, productivity improvements and industry supply increases. We may be forced to lower our prices or add new products and features at lower prices to remain competitive, and we may otherwise be unable to introduce new products at higher prices. We cannot be assured that we will be able to compete successfully in this kind of price competitive environment. Lower prices would reduce our ability to generate sales, and our gross margin would suffer. If we fail to mitigate the effect of these pressures through increased sales volume or changing our product mix, our net sales and gross margin could be adversely affected. Price declines are also affected by any imbalances between demand and supply. For most of 2002, as in the several years prior, disk supply exceeded demand. As independent suppliers like us struggled to utilize their capacity, the excess disk supply caused average selling prices for disks to decline. Pricing pressure on component suppliers was also compounded by high consumer demand for inexpensive PCs and consumer devices. Supply and demand conditions have improved since 2002, resulting in a more stable pricing environment. Supply and demand factors and industry-wide competition could adjust in the future and force disk prices down, which, in turn, would put pressure on our gross margin. Internal disk operations of disk drive manufacturers may adversely affect our ability to sell our disk products. Disk drive manufacturers such as HGST, Maxtor, and Seagate have large internal thin-film media manufacturing operations, and are able to produce a substantial percentage of their disk requirements. We compete directly with these internal operations when we market our products to these disk drive companies, and compete indirectly when we sell our disks to customers who must compete with vertically-integrated disk drive manufacturers. Vertically-integrated companies have the opportunity to keep their disk-making operations fully utilized, thus lowering their costs of production. This cost advantage contributes to the pressure on us and other independent disk manufacturers to sell disks at lower prices and can severely affect our profitability. Vertically-integrated companies are also able to achieve a large manufacturing scale that supports the development resources necessary to advance technology rapidly. HGST recently announced that it intends to consolidate its internal thin-film media manufacturing operations in China, which could result in decreased demand for our products by HGST or increased pricing pressure. We may not have sufficient resources or manufacturing scale to be able to compete effectively with these companies as to production costs or technology development, which would negatively impact our net sales and market share. All of our manufacturing operations have been consolidated in Malaysia and our foreign operations and international sales subject us to additional risks inherent in doing business on an international level that make it more costly or difficult to conduct our business. As a result of our consolidation of manufacturing operations in Malaysia, technology developed at our U.S.-based research and development center must now be first implemented for high-volume production at our Malaysian facilities without the benefit of being implemented at a U.S. factory. Therefore, we rely heavily on electronic communications between our U.S. headquarters and our Malaysian facilities to transfer specifications and procedures, diagnose operational issues, and meet customer requirements. If our operations in Malaysia or overseas communications are disrupted for a prolonged period for any reason, including a failure in electronic communications with our U.S. operations, the manufacture and shipment of our products would be delayed, and our results of operations would suffer. Additionally, because a large portion of our payroll, certain manufacturing and operating expenses, and inventory and capital purchases is transacted in the Malaysian ringgit (ringgit), we are particularly sensitive to any change in the foreign currency exchange rate for the ringgit. For approximately the last six years, the exchange rate between the ringgit and the U.S. dollar has been pegged at 3.8 ringgits to 1 U.S. dollar by the 13 Table of Contents Malaysian government. Recent news reports and certain Malaysian government officials have indicated that the Malaysian government may be considering a change in the exchange rate. If the Malaysian government elects to change the pegging of the ringgit to the U.S. dollar and the ringgit proves to be undervalued, the change in exchange rates could adversely affect the amount we spend on our payroll, certain manufacturing and operating expenses, and raw materials and capital purchases. In 2004, our spending on payroll, manufacturing, and operating expenses, and raw materials and capital purchases that were denominated in ringgit was approximately $130.6 million. Additionally, in 2004, we paid approximately $20.1 million for raw materials purchases from a vendor we pay in U.S. dollars, based on a cost plus a percentage arrangement. This vendor incurs costs that are denominated in ringgit; therefore, any change in the valuation of the ringgit in the future could materially adversely impact the cost per unit we pay for such raw materials. Furthermore, our ability to transfer funds from our Malaysian operations to the United States is subject to Malaysian rules and regulations. In 1999, the Malaysian government repealed a regulation that restricted the amount of dividends that a Malaysian company may pay to its stockholders. Had it not been repealed, this regulation would have potentially limited our ability to transfer funds to the United States from our Malaysian operations. Because a significant percentage of our revenues is generated from our Malaysian operations, we would be unable to finance our U.S.-based research and development and/or repay our U.S. debt obligations if similar regulations are enacted in the future. Additionally, there are a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States. Our sales to Asian customers, including the foreign subsidiaries of domestic disk drive companies, account for substantially all of our net sales. While our Asian customers assemble a substantial portion of their disk drives in Asia, they subsequently sell these products throughout the world. Therefore, our high concentration of Asian sales does not accurately reflect the eventual point of consumption of the assembled disk drives. We anticipate that international sales will continue to represent the majority of our net sales, and as a result the success of our business is subject to factors affecting global markets generally. We are subject to these risks to a greater extent than most companies because, in addition to selling our products outside the United States, our Malaysian operations account for substantially all of our net sales. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent with international operations, including, but not limited to: • compliance with changing legal and regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions; • fluctuations in tariffs or other trade barriers; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political, social and economic instability; • increased exposure to threats and acts of terrorism; • exposure to taxes in multiple jurisdictions; • local infrastructure problems or failures including but not limited to loss of power and water supply; and • transportation delays and interruptions. If we are unable to perform successfully in the highly competitive and increasingly concentrated disk industry, we may not be able to maintain or gain additional market share, and our operating results would be harmed. The market for our products is highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue in the future. Competitors in the thin-film media industry fall primarily into two groups: Asian-based independent disk manufacturers, and captive disk manufacturers. Our major Asian-based independent competitors include Fuji Electric, Hoya, and Showa Denko (of which Trace Storage Technology became a part in mid-2004). The 14 Table of Contents captive disk manufacturers who produce thin-film media internally for their own use include HGST, Maxtor, and Seagate. In late 2002, IBM entered into a joint venture with Hitachi. The joint venture, which was named Hitachi Global Storage Technologies (HGST), includes Hitachi’s and IBM’s disk drive operations and a portion of IBM’s thin-film media operations, and evidences the increasing concentration and economies of scale in our industry. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we have, which could allow them to adjust to fluctuating market conditions better than we. Further, they may have greater technical and manufacturing resources, more extensive name recognition, more marketing power, a broader array of product lines and preferred vendor status. To the extent our competitors continue to consolidate and achieve greater economies of scale, we will face additional competitive challenges. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, we would not be able to gain additional market share for our products, or we may lose our existing market share, and our operating results could be harmed. Because our products require a lengthy sales cycle with no assurance of high volume sales, we may expend significant financial and other resources without a return. With short product life cycles and the rapid technological change experienced in the disk drive industry, we must frequently qualify new products with our disk drive manufacturing customers, based on criteria such as quality, storage capacity, performance, and price. Qualifying disks for incorporation into new disk drive products requires us to work extensively with our customer and the customer’s other suppliers to meet product specifications. Therefore, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations, as well as substantial interaction with our senior management, before making a purchasing decision. Accordingly, our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle, which can range from six to twelve months or longer. During this time, we may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort, while having no assurances that a sale will result, or that disk drive programs ultimately will result in high-volume production. To the extent we expend significant resources to qualify products without realizing sales, our operations will suffer. If our customers cancel orders, our sales could suffer and we are generally not entitled to receive cancellation penalties to offset the loss of sales revenue. Our sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification, or rescheduling without significant penalties. As a result, if a customer cancels, modifies, or reschedules an order, we may have already made expenditures that are not recoverable, and our profitability will suffer. Furthermore, if our current customers do not continue to place orders with us or if we are unable to obtain orders from new customers, our sales and operating results will suffer. Disk drive program life cycles are short, and disk drive programs are highly customized. If we fail to respond to our customers’ demanding requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively. The disk industry is subject to rapid technological change, and if we are unable to anticipate and develop products and production technologies on a timely basis, our competitive position could be harmed. In general, the life cycles of disk drive programs are short. Additionally, disks must be more customized to each disk drive program. Short program life cycles and customization have increased the risk of product obsolescence, and as a result, supply chain management, including just-in-time delivery, has become a standard industry practice. In order to sustain customer relationships and sustain profitability, we must be able to develop new products and technologies in a timely fashion in order to help customers reduce their time-to-market performance, and continue to maintain operational excellence that supports high-volume manufacturing ramps and tight inventory management throughout the supply chain. Accordingly, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest heavily, in our research and development program. If we cannot respond to this rapidly changing environment or fail to meet our customers’ demanding product and qualification requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively. As a result, we would not be able to maximize the use of our production facilities, and our profitability would be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents If we do not keep pace with the rapid technological change in the disk drive industry, we will not be able to compete effectively, and our operating results could suffer. Our products primarily serve the 31/2-inch disk drive market where product performance, consistent quality, price and availability are of great competitive importance. Advances in disk drive technology require continually lower flying heights and higher areal density. Until recently, areal density was roughly doubling from year-to-year and even today continues to increase rapidly, requiring significant improvement in every aspect of disk design. These advances require substantial on-going process and technology development. New process technologies, including SAF and PMR, must support cost-effective, high-volume production of disks that meet these ever-advancing customer requirements for enhanced magnetic recording performance. We may not be able to develop and implement these technologies in a timely manner in order to compete effectively against our competitors’ products or entirely new data storage technologies. In addition, we must transfer our technology from our U.S.-based research and development center to our Malaysian manufacturing operations. If we cannot advance our process technologies or do not successfully implement those advanced technologies in our Malaysian operations, or if technologies that we have chosen not to develop prove to be viable competitive alternatives, we would not be able to compete effectively. As a result, we would lose market share and face increased price competition from other manufacturers, and our operating results would suffer. Further, as we introduce more technologically advanced product offerings, they can result in lower introductory yields, which would negatively impact our gross margins. If we fail to improve the quality of, and control contamination in our manufacturing processes, we will lose our ability to remain competitive. The manufacture of our products requires a tightly-controlled, multi-stage process, and the use of high-quality materials. Efficient production of our products requires utilization of advanced manufacturing techniques and clean room facilities. Disk fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield-limiting and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent manufacturing controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of the disks in a production lot to be defective. The success of our manufacturing operations depends, in part, on our ability to maintain process control and minimize such impurities in order to maximize yield of acceptable high-quality disks. Minor variations from specifications could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our manufacturing yields. If we are not able to continue to improve on our manufacturing processes or maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, we will not remain competitive, and our operating results would be harmed. An industry trend towards glass-based applications could negatively impact our ability to remain competitive. Our finished disks are primarily manufactured from aluminum substrates, which are the primary substrate used in desktop PC and enterprise applications. Some disk manufacturers emphasize the use of glass as a basis for the manufacture of their disks to primarily serve the mobile PC market and certain other consumer applications. These applications are expected to achieve significant growth in the near future. To the extent glass-based applications were to achieve significant growth in the market place, we may lose market share if we were unable to move rapidly to produce glass-based disks to address the demand. An industry trend towards glass-based applications could negatively impact our ability to remain competitive. Our finished disks are primarily manufactured from aluminum substrates, which are the primary substrate used in desktop PC and enterprise applications. Some disk manufacturers emphasize the use of glass as a basis for the manufacture of their disks to primarily serve the mobile PC market and certain other consumer applications. These applications are expected to achieve significant growth in the near future. To the extent glass-based applications were to achieve significant growth in the market place, we may lose market share if we were unable to move rapidly to produce glass-based disks to address the demand. 16 Table of Contents If we are not able to attract and retain key personnel, our operations could be harmed. Our future success depends on the continued service of our executive officers, our highly-skilled research, development, and engineering team, our manufacturing team, and our key administrative, sales and marketing, and support personnel. Acquiring talented personnel who possess the advanced skills we require has been difficult. Our bankruptcy filing and our financial performance in prior years increased the difficulty of attracting and retaining skilled engineers and other knowledgeable workers. Even though we have emerged from bankruptcy, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel. We may not be able to attract, assimilate, or retain highly-qualified personnel to maintain the capabilities that are necessary to compete effectively. Further, we do not have key person life insurance on any of our key personnel. If we are unable to retain existing or hire key personnel, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be harmed. If we do not protect our patents and other intellectual property rights, our revenues could suffer. It is commonplace to protect technology through patents and other forms of intellectual property rights in technically sophisticated fields. In the disk and disk drive industries, companies and individuals have initiated actions against others in the industry to enforce intellectual property rights. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other measures, we may not be able to protect adequately our technology. In addition, we may not be able to discover significant infringements of our technology or successfully enforce our rights to our technology if we discover infringing uses by others, and such infringements could have a negative impact on our ability to compete effectively. Competitors may be able to develop similar technology and also may have or may develop intellectual property rights and enforce those rights to prevent us from using such technologies, or demand royalty payments from us in return for using such technologies. Either of these events may affect our production, which could materially reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to resolve, may divert our management’s attention, and may negatively impact our operations. We have occasionally received, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties that assert violation of intellectual property rights alleged to cover certain of our products or manufacturing processes or equipment. We evaluate on a case-by-case basis whether it would be necessary to defend against such claims or to seek licenses to the rights referred to in such communications. In certain cases, we may not be able to negotiate necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Also, if we have to defend such claims, we could incur significant expenses and our management’s attention could be diverted from our core business. Further, we may not be able to anticipate claims by others that we infringe on their technology or successfully defend ourselves against such claims. Any litigation resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Historical quarterly results may not accurately predict our performance due to a number of uncertainties and market factors, and as a result it is difficult to predict our future results. Our operating results historically have fluctuated significantly on both a quarterly and annual basis. We believe that our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based on a wide variety of factors, including: • timing of significant orders, or order cancellations; • changes in our product mix and average selling prices; • modified, adjusted or rescheduled shipments; • availability of disks versus demand for disks; • the cyclical nature of the disk drive industry; • our ability to develop and implement new manufacturing process technologies; 17 Table of Contents • increases in our production and engineering costs associated with initial design and production of new product programs; • fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Malaysian ringgit; • the ability of our process equipment to meet more stringent future product requirements; • our ability to introduce new products that achieve cost-effective high-volume production in a timely manner, timing of product announcements, and market acceptance of new products; • the availability of our production capacity, and the extent to which we can use that capacity; • changes in our manufacturing efficiencies, in particular product yields and input costs for direct materials, operating supplies and other running costs; • prolonged disruptions of operations at any of our facilities for any reason; • changes in the cost of or limitations on availability of labor; • structural changes within the disk industry, including combinations, failures, and joint venture arrangements; and • changes in tax regulations in foreign jurisdictions that could potentially reduce our tax incentives in areas such as Malaysian capital allowances, tax holidays, and exemptions on withholding tax on royalty payments made by our Malaysian operations to our subsidiary in The Netherlands. We cannot forecast with certainty the impact of these and other factors on our revenues and operating results in any future period. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expectations as to future revenues. If our revenue levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to suffer. If we make unprofitable acquisitions or are unable to successfully integrate future acquisitions, our business could suffer. We have in the past acquired, and in the future may acquire, businesses, products, equipment, or technologies that we believe will complement or expand our existing business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies, especially given the specialized nature of our technology; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • assume liabilities; • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs; or • become subject to litigation. For example, in 2000, we acquired HMT Technology Corporation (HMT), another disk manufacturer. As a result of the acquisition of HMT, we acquired debt liabilities, real property and manufacturing facilities, 18 Table of Contents and incurred significant transaction costs related to the acquisition that raised our ongoing operational expenses and fixed costs. We were unable to utilize our increased capacity and generate sufficient revenues to cover the increased costs, and have since sold a majority of all unused facilities. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that any future acquisitions by us will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. The failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even if an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to products or the integration of the company into our company. The nature of our operations makes us susceptible to material environmental liabilities, which could result in significant compliance and clean-up expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign regulations relating to: • the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of hazardous materials used during our manufacturing process; • the treatment of water used in our manufacturing process; and • air quality management. We are required to obtain necessary permits for expanding our facilities. We must also comply with new regulations on our existing operations, which may result in significant costs. Public attention has increasingly been focused on the environmental impact of manufacturing operations that use hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations or fail to obtain the necessary permits: • we could be subject to significant penalties; • our ability to expand or operate in California or Malaysia could be restricted; • our ability to establish additional operations in other locations could be restricted; or • we could be required to obtain costly equipment or incur significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Furthermore, our manufacturing processes rely on the use of hazardous materials, and any accidental hazardous discharge could result in significant liability and clean-up expenses, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we may have to defend lawsuits in connection with the operation of our business. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. If we do not prevail in any lawsuit which may occur we could be subject to significant liability for damages, our patents and other proprietary rights could be invalidated, and we could be subject to injunctions preventing us from taking certain actions. If any of the above occurs, our business and financial position could be harmed. Earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters could disrupt our operations. Our U.S. facilities are located in San Jose, California. In addition, Kobe and other Japanese suppliers of our key manufacturing supplies and sputtering machines are located in areas with seismic activity. Our Malaysian operations have been subject to temporary production interruptions due to localized flooding, disruptions in the delivery of electrical power, and, on one occasion in 1997, by smoke generated by large, widespread fires in Indonesia. If any natural or man-made disasters do occur, operations could be disrupted for prolonged periods, and our business would suffer. 19 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation could discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change of control. We have protective provisions in place designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover is in our best interests and that of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have three classes of directors. As a result, a person could not take control of the board until the third annual meeting after the closing of the takeover, since a majority of our directors will not stand for election until that third annual meeting. This provision could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the company and also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including offers at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. These provisions also may inhibit fluctuations in our stock price that could result from takeover attempts. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We are leveraged, and our debt service requirements will continue to make us vulnerable to economic downturns. In the first quarter of 2004, we completed a public common stock offering of 4.0 million shares (of which 0.5 million were sold by selling stockholders) and a public $80.5 million Convertible Subordinated Notes offering. We used a significant portion of the proceeds of the offerings to redeem all of our outstanding Senior Notes. Even though we redeemed all of the outstanding Senior Notes using the proceeds of the common stock offering and the debt offering, we now have debt service obligations under the Convertible Subordinated Notes. As a result, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to meet our obligations on our Convertible Subordinated Notes, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund our business. Debt service obligations arising from the offering of our Convertible Subordinated Notes could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry, and could limit our ability to borrow more money for operations and implement our business strategy in the future. In addition, our leverage may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. We will continue to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage because our interest and debt repayment requirements makes us more susceptible to downturns in our business. Our holding company structure makes us dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Most of our operations are conducted through, and most of our assets are held by, our subsidiaries. Therefore, we are dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due under the Convertible Subordinated Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. Our subsidiaries have not guaranteed the payment of the Convertible Subordinated Notes, and payments on the Convertible Subordinated Notes are required to be made only by us. Except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, subject to any limitations contained in our debt agreements, all claims of creditors and holders of preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries will have priority with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Convertible Subordinated Notes. The assets of our subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on our debt obligations. We may not have direct access to the assets of our subsidiaries unless these assets are transferred by dividend or otherwise to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us is subject to various restrictions, including restrictions under other agreements to which we are a party under applicable law. 20 Table of Contents 