Item 1A. Risk Factors These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, or other unexpected events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our stock could decline, and investors may lose part or all of their investment. Further, this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ significantly from the results contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is concentrated in the disk drive market, so downturns in the disk drive manufacturing market and related markets may decrease our revenues and margins, which would materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is concentrated in the disk drive market, so the market for our products depends on the economic conditions affecting the disk drive manufacturing market and related markets. Our products are incorporated into disk drives manufactured by our customers for the desktop personal computer market as well as the enterprise storage systems market and consumer electronic device market. Historically, it has been very difficult to achieve and maintain profitability and revenue growth in the disk drive industry because the average selling price of a disk drive rapidly declines over its commercial life as a result of technological enhancement, productivity improvement and increases in supply. In addition, intense price competition among personal computer manufacturers also tends to cause the average selling price of a disk drive to decline even further. Because of the concentration of our products in the disk drive market, which we expect to continue, our business is linked to the success of this market, so any downturns in the disk drive market and related markets may decrease our revenues and margins, which would materially and adversely affect our business. The disk drive market in which our business is concentrated is seasonal and cyclical, so it is difficult to predict our revenues and margins, which could make our stock price more volatile. The disk drive market in which our business is concentrated has historically been seasonal and cyclical, and has experienced periods of oversupply and reduced production levels, resulting in significantly reduced demand for disks and pricing pressures. The effect of these cycles on suppliers like us historically has been magnified by disk drive manufacturers’ practice of ordering components, including disks, in excess of their needs during periods of rapid growth, thereby increasing the severity of the drop in the demand for components during periods of reduced 11 Table of Contents growth or contraction. Further, downturns in the disk drive market may cause disk drive manufacturers to delay or cancel projects, reduce their production, or reduce or cancel orders for our products. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in payment and collection, pricing pressures, and unused capacity, causing us to realize lower revenues and margins and causing our operating results to suffer. For example, during the third quarter of 2006, disk drive manufacturers appear to have overbuilt product, which resulted in an excess supply of disk drives. Due to these factors, forecasts may not be achieved, either because expected sales do not occur or because they occur at lower prices or on terms that are less favorable to us. This increases the chance that our revenues and margins could be lower than the expectations of investors and analysts, which could make our stock price more volatile. If we are unable to perform successfully in the highly competitive and increasingly concentrated disk industry, we may not be able to maintain or gain additional market share and our business and operating results would be harmed. The market for our products is highly competitive, and we expect competition to continue in the future. Competitors in the thin-film media industry fall primarily into two groups: Asian-based independent disk manufacturers, and captive disk manufacturers. Our major Asian-based independent competitors include Fuji Electric, Hoya, and Showa Denko. The captive disk manufacturers who produce thin-film media internally for their own use include HGST and Seagate. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we have, which could allow them to adjust to fluctuating market conditions better than we. Further, they may have greater technical and manufacturing resources, more marketing power, and a broader array of products. To the extent our competitors continue to consolidate and achieve greater economies of scale, we will face additional competitive challenges. Our competitors may also lower their product prices to gain market share, develop new technology which would significantly reduce the cost of their products, or offer more products than we do and therefore enter into agreements with customers to supply their products as part of a larger supply agreement. Price declines are also affected by any imbalances between demand and supply. We may be forced to lower our prices or add new products and features at lower prices to remain competitive, and we may otherwise be unable to introduce new products at higher prices. We cannot be assured that we will be able to compete successfully in this kind of price competitive environment. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, we may lose our existing market share and may not be able to gain additional market share for our products, our business and operating results would be harmed. If we do not keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the disk drive industry, we will not be able to compete effectively, and our operating results could suffer. Our products primarily serve the 31/2-inch disk drive market where product performance, consistent quality, price, and availability are important competitive factors. The continuing need for high-capacity disk drives requires disks with higher storage capacity. Higher storage capacity on the surface of a disk is achieved by increasing its areal density. Areal density continues to increase rapidly, requiring significant improvements in every aspect of disk design. These advances require substantial on-going process and technology development. New process technologies, such as perpendicular magnetic recording media (PMR), must support cost-effective, high-volume production of disks that meet these ever-advancing customer requirements for enhanced magnetic recording performance. We may not be able to develop and implement these technologies in a timely manner in order to compete effectively against our competitors’ products or entirely new data storage technologies. In addition, we must transfer our technology from our US-based research and development center to our Malaysian manufacturing operations. If we cannot effectively develop and implement adequate process technologies or do not successfully transfer our technologies to our Malaysian operations, or if technologies that we choose not to develop prove to be viable competitive alternatives, we would not be able to compete effectively. As a result, we would lose market share and face increased price competition from other manufacturers, and our operating results could suffer. If we fail to effectively implement our perpendicular magnetic recording media (PMR) product transition plans, our operating results will suffer. We have begun a significant product transition program from longitudal magnetic recording (LMR) to advanced perpendicular magnetic recording media (PMR) products. This is an important and substantial product 12 Table of Contents undertaking for us, and presents many operational challenges. For example, for both internal and external reasons, we may not be able to complete our PMR product transition plans quickly enough in order for us to compete effectively against our competitors. Internally, we may be unable to increase production of PMR products in a timely manner. Externally, we may face shortages or unexpected price increases in critical supplies, such as the precious metals necessary for the manufacture of our PMR products. In addition, our product transition plans will require us to dedicate significant financial and management resources, and if we fail to effectively manage and utilize these resources, we would not be able to compete effectively. If any of the risks occur and we are not able to effectively implement our product transition plans, our operating results will suffer. If we are unable to minimize the use of precious metals in our products and the price and scarcity of these precious metals continue to increase, our ability to transition to PMR products could be delayed or eliminated. The manufacture of our PMR products currently requires the use of precious metals, such as platinum and ruthenium. These precious metals, particularly ruthenium, recently have experienced a significant increase in price and, at times, have become difficult to acquire. If we are unable to replace or minimize the use of ruthenium in our PMR products and cannot obtain sufficient quantities of ruthenium at commercially reasonable prices, as an initial matter, our ability to transition over to the manufacture of our PMR products may be slowed. If shortages in ruthenium supplies continue and the price of ruthenium continues to rise, we could experience the following adverse effects: • our PMR products could become more expensive and therefore less competitive than alternative or existing technologies regardless of technological superiority; or • our PMR products could simply become unsustainably expensive to manufacture, which would require us to abandon the development of PMR products and cause us to sell more LMR products. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers, if our suppliers experience capacity constraints or production failures, our production, operating results and growth potential could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of qualified suppliers for some of the materials and equipment used in our manufacturing processes, including aluminum blanks, aluminum substrates, nickel plating solutions, polishing and texturing supplies, and sputtering target materials. For example, Kobe Steel, Ltd. is our primary supplier of aluminum substrate blanks, which is a fundamental component in producing our disks. We also rely on Heraeus Incorporated and Williams Advanced Materials, Incorporated for a substantial quantity of our sputtering target requirements, and on OMG Fidelity, Inc. for supplies of nickel plating solutions. As a result of increased worldwide demand, the supply of sputtering target materials, such as ruthenium, has been constrained recently, resulting in longer lead times and limited product allocations from certain target suppliers. The increasing demand for many of these materials provides our sole-source suppliers with additional bargaining power. Further, the production cycle for certain sputter target supplies has increased, requiring us to increase inventories of precious metals decreasing our operating cash flow. We have also entered into volume purchase commitments for precious metals. If we have not accurately forecasted our requirements for these precious metals, we may have excess or insufficient supplies. If we have excess supplies of precious metals we may not be able to sell the excess in a timely manner or without incurring a loss. If we have insufficient supplies of precious metals we may be required to slow our transition plans to PMR. If one or more of these materials were to become unavailable or available in reduced quantities and we were not able to find an alternative supplier for that material, in addition to the risks delineated above with respect to ruthenium in particular, we could experience the following adverse effects to our business in general: • our production capacity could be reduced if we lack the supplies necessary to manufacture the number of products for which we have sales orders, which could cause us to breach agreements with our customers, make price concessions or otherwise cause a reduction in our revenues; • we might have to modify our products, which could both delay shipment of those products and cause those modified products to be more expensive to manufacture resulting is a lower rate of return on those products; 13 Table of Contents • even if we were able to obtain alternative supplies, those supplies could be more expensive, thereby causing our costs of production to increase; • if we are not able to pass these price increases along to our customers, our operating margins would decline; and • we might be delayed in shipping products or unable to ship products at all, which could cause existing and potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenues and margins to decline. We cannot be assured that we will be able to obtain adequate supplies of critical materials and equipment in a timely and economic manner, or at all. The success of our products also depends on our ability to effectively integrate materials that use leading-edge technology. In addition, if we are unable to successfully manage the integration of materials obtained from third party suppliers, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. If our sources of materials and supplies were limited or unavailable for a significant period of time or the costs of such materials were to increase, our production, operating results and ability to grow our business could be harmed. We receive a large percentage of our net sales from only a few disk drive manufacturing customers, the loss or reduction of any of which would materially and adversely affect our business and sales. We sell our products to a limited number of customers. Our customers are disk drive manufacturers. Because of our small customer base, the loss of any one significant customer would materially and adversely affect our business and sales. In addition, if our current customers do not continue to place orders with us or if we are unable to obtain orders from new customers, our business and sales will likewise suffer. A relatively small number of disk drive manufacturers dominate the disk drive market. We expect that the success of our business will continue to depend on a limited number of customers. In 2006, 37% of our total net sales were to Western Digital, 36% were to Seagate and 23% were to HGST. In 2005, 24% of our net sales were to Western Digital, 16% were to Seagate, 21% were to HGST and 32% were to Maxtor. In May 2006, Seagate acquired Maxtor, making the combined Seagate company the largest disk drive manufacturer in the industry. We have reflected sales to Maxtor in the Seagate numbers for all of 2006. If any one of our significant customers reduces its disk requirements, cancels existing orders, develops or expands capacity to produce its own disks, or requires us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, and we are unable to replace these orders with sales to new customers, our sales would be reduced and our business, financial condition, and operating results would suffer. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our significant customers is essential to our future performance. In addition, if our customers cancel orders, our sales could suffer and we are generally not entitled to receive cancellation penalties to offset the loss of sales revenue. Our sales are generally made pursuant to purchase orders that are subject to cancellation, modification, or rescheduling without significant penalties. As a result, if a customer cancels, modifies, or reschedules an order, we may have already made expenditures that are not recoverable, and our profitability will suffer. Our agreements with each of our major customers require us to meet certain production volumes and to provide certain credits on future disk sales, and if we fail to successfully perform under these agreements, we may incur substantial costs and expenses, and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have entered into strategic supply agreements, including certain amendments to these agreements, with each of our major customers that require us to meet certain production volume goals. In addition, under the terms of these supply agreements, our customers are required to pay certain advances to us covering future purchases of media from us. The customer advances, which totaled $127.2 million as of December 31, 2006, are to be repaid to our customers via a credit of a specified dollar amount per disk on future sales. Pursuant to these agreements, monies have been advanced to us to help fund the expansion of our capacity, and if we fail to meet the agreed upon volume goals, due to our inability to meet product specifications or timetables required by our customers for delivery, we may need to refund some of our customer advances. In addition, the agreements generally provide for repayment of the advances at the end of the term of the agreement if the advances are not fully paid by credits 14 Table of Contents applied to purchases. The terms of the current arrangements expire on various dates through December 2009. Our inability to successfully and competently perform our obligations under our agreements may cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses, and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our failure to timely and efficiently transition our enterprise resource planning software from the system we currently use to a new system, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We use enterprise resource planning software in the operation of our business and maintenance of business and financial data related to our daily operations. We are in the process of transitioning to new resource planning software during 2007. We may experience unexpected difficulties in transitioning to the new software, including difficulties related to the failure or inefficient operation of the new software. Such difficulties or failures could result in our inability to access business and financial information stored on the system or the loss of such information. Any inability to access, or loss of, such information as a result of the transition or otherwise could affect our daily operations, including our ability to ship products and invoice our customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and financial results. If we are not able to attract and retain key personnel our business and operation results could be harmed. Our future success depends on the continued service of our executive officers, our highly-skilled research, development and engineering team, our manufacturing team, and our key administrative, sales and marketing, and support personnel, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Acquiring and retaining talented personnel who possess the advanced skills we require has been difficult, particularly at our Malaysian manufacturing facilities where there is high growth in the marketplace. We may not be able to attract, assimilate, or retain highly-qualified personnel to maintain the capabilities that are necessary to compete effectively. Further, we do not have key person life insurance on any of our key personnel. If we are unable to retain existing or hire key personnel, our business and operating results could be harmed. If our production capacity is underutilized, our gross margin will be adversely affected and we could sustain significant losses. Our business is characterized by high fixed overhead costs, including expensive plant facilities and production equipment. Our per-unit costs and our gross profit are significantly affected by the number of units we produce and the amount of our production capacity that we utilize. We have significantly increased the production capacity of our manufacturing operations in Malaysia in 2006. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience periods of underutilized capacity. For example, in the third quarter of 2004, we completed the installation of additional equipment, which increased our production capacity from approximately 20 million disks a quarter to approximately 24 million disks a quarter. Our finished disk shipments were below this capacity level in the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2004. If our capacity utilization decreases for any reason, including lack of customer demand or cancellation or delay of customer orders, we could experience significantly higher unit production costs, lower margins, and potentially significant losses. Underutilization of our production capacity could also result in asset impairment charges, restructuring charges, and employee layoffs. If our production capacity is underutilized for any reason, our financial results and our business would be severely harmed. Internal disk operations of disk drive manufacturers may adversely affect our ability to sell our disk products. Disk drive manufacturers such as HGST and Seagate have large internal thin-film media manufacturing operations, and are able to produce a substantial percentage of their disk requirements. We have strategic supply agreements with both of these customers. However, we also compete directly with these customers’ internal operations, and compete indirectly when we sell our disks to customers who must compete with vertically-integrated disk drive manufacturers. Vertically-integrated companies have the opportunity to keep their disk-making operations fully utilized, thus lowering their costs of production. This cost advantage contributes to the pressure on us and other independent disk manufacturers to sell disks at lower prices and can severely affect our profitability. Vertically-integrated companies are also able to achieve a large manufacturing scale that supports the 15 Table of Contents development resources necessary to advance technology rapidly. Both Seagate and HGST are adding internal thin film media manufacturing capacity to support the growing demand for disks drives. We may not have sufficient resources or manufacturing scale to be able to compete effectively with these companies as to production costs or technology development, which would negatively impact our net sales and market share. All of our manufacturing operations are in Malaysia and our foreign operations and international sales subject us to additional risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could make it more costly and difficult to conduct our business. Our manufacturing operations are consolidated in Malaysia. As a result, technology developed at our US-based research and development center must be first implemented for high-volume production at our Malaysian facilities. Therefore, we rely heavily on electronic communications between our US headquarters and our Malaysian facilities to transfer specifications and procedures, diagnose operational issues, and meet customer requirements. If our operations in Malaysia or overseas communications are disrupted for a prolonged period for any reason, including a failure in electronic communications with our US operations, the manufacture and shipment of our products would be delayed, and our results of operations would suffer. In addition, a tsunami, flood, earthquake, political instability, act of terrorism or other disaster or condition that adversely affects our facilities or ability to manufacture our products could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, because a large portion of our payroll, certain manufacturing and operating expenses, and inventory and capital purchases is transacted in the Malaysian ringgit (ringgit), we are particularly sensitive to any change in the foreign currency exchange rate for the ringgit. For approximately seven years, the exchange rate between the ringgit and the US dollar was pegged at 3.8 ringgits to one US dollar by the Malaysian government. In July 2005, Malaysia removed its currency peg to the US dollar in favor of a managed float system. The change in exchange rates could adversely affect the amount we spend on our payroll, certain manufacturing and operating expenses, and raw materials and capital purchases. In 2006, our spending on payroll, manufacturing, and operating expenses, and raw materials and capital purchases that were denominated in ringgit was approximately $327.5 million. Additionally, in 2006, we paid approximately $120.3 million US dollars to a Malaysian supplier for raw materials purchases, based on a cost plus a percentage arrangement. This Malaysian supplier incurs certain costs that are denominated in ringgit; therefore, any change in the valuation of the ringgit could materially impact the cost per unit we pay for such raw materials. Furthermore, our ability to transfer funds from our Malaysian operations to the US is subject to Malaysian rules and regulations. There are a number of other risks associated with conducting business outside of the US. Our Malaysian operations account for substantially all of our net sales. Our sales are primarily made to Asian customers, including the foreign subsidiaries of domestic disk drive companies. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to the risks inherent with international operations, including, but not limited to: • compliance with changing legal and regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions; • fluctuations in tariffs or other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political, social, and economic instability; • increased exposure to threats and acts of terrorism; • exposure to taxes in multiple jurisdictions; • exposure to fluctuations in the value of currency; • local infrastructure problems or failures including but not limited to loss of power and water supply; and • transportation delays and interruptions. If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with international operations and sales, our business, financial condition, and operating results could suffer. 16 Table of Contents Because our products require a lengthy sales cycle with no assurance of high volume sales, we may expend significant financial and other resources without a return. We must frequently qualify new products with our disk drive manufacturing customers, based on criteria such as quality, storage capacity, performance, and price. Qualifying disks for incorporation into new disk drive products requires us to work extensively with our customer and the customer’s other suppliers to meet product specifications. Therefore, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations, as well as substantial interaction with our senior management, before making a purchasing decision. Accordingly, our products typically have a lengthy sales cycle, which can range from six to twelve months or longer. During this time, we may expend substantial financial resources and management time and effort, while having no assurances that a sale will result, or that disk drive programs ultimately will result in high-volume production. To the extent we expend significant resources to qualify products without realizing sales, our operations will suffer. Disk drive programs are highly customized. If we fail to respond to our customers’ demanding requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively. The disk industry is subject to rapid technological change, and if we are unable to anticipate and develop products and production technologies on a timely basis, our competitive position could be harmed. Customization has increased the risk of product obsolescence, and as a result, supply chain management, including just-in-time delivery, has become a standard industry practice. In order to sustain customer relationships and sustain profitability, we must be able to develop new products and technologies in a timely fashion in order to help customers reduce their time-to-market performance, and continue to maintain operational excellence that supports high-volume manufacturing ramps and tight inventory management throughout the supply chain. The success of any new product introduction is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to manage the risks associated with product transitions, and the risk that a new product will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of such product. Accordingly, we have invested, and intend to continue to invest heavily, in our research and development program. If we cannot respond to this rapidly changing environment or fail to meet our customers’ demanding product and qualification requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively. As a result, we would not be able to maximize the use of our production facilities, and our profitability would be negatively impacted. If we fail to improve the quality of, and control contamination in our manufacturing processes, we will lose our ability to remain competitive. The manufacture of our products requires a tightly-controlled, multi-stage process, and the use of high-quality materials. Efficient production of our products requires utilization of advanced manufacturing techniques and clean room facilities. Disk fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield-limiting and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent manufacturing controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of the disks in a production lot to be defective. The success of our manufacturing operations depends, in part, on our ability to maintain process control and minimize such impurities in order to maximize yield of acceptable high-quality disks. Minor variations from specifications could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our manufacturing yields. If we are not able to continue to improve on our manufacturing processes or maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, we will not remain competitive, and our operating results would be harmed. An industry trend towards glass-based applications could negatively impact our ability to remain competitive. Our finished disks are manufactured primarily from aluminum substrates, which are the primary substrate used in desktop PC, enterprise applications, and high-capacity consumer applications. Some disk manufacturers emphasize the use of glass as a basis for the manufacture of their disks to primarily serve the mobile PC market and certain other mobile consumer applications. These applications are expected to achieve significant growth in the near future. Although we are currently developing glass-based products for shipment in 2007, there is no guarantee that our production efforts will be successful. To the extent glass-based applications were to achieve 17 Table of Contents significant growth in the market place, we may lose market share if we were unable to move rapidly and effectively to produce glass-based disks to address the demand. If we do not protect our patents and other intellectual property rights, our net sales could suffer. Our protection of our intellectual property is limited. It is commonplace to protect technology through patents and other forms of intellectual property rights in technically sophisticated fields. We may not receive patents for our pending or future patent applications, and any patents that we own or that are issued to us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In the disk and disk drive industries, companies and individuals have initiated actions against others in the industry to enforce intellectual property rights. Although we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other measures, we may not be able to protect adequately our technology. In addition, we may not be able to discover significant infringements of our technology or successfully enforce our rights to our technology if we discover infringing uses by others, and such infringements could have a negative impact on our ability to compete effectively. Competitors may be able to develop similar technology and also may have or may develop intellectual property rights and enforce those rights to prevent us from using such technologies, or demand royalty payments from us in return for using such technologies. Either of these events may affect our production, which could materially reduce our net sales and harm our operating results. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to resolve, may divert our management’s attention, and may negatively impact our business and operating results. We have occasionally received, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties that assert violation of intellectual property rights alleged to cover certain of our products or manufacturing processes or equipment. We evaluate on a case-by-case basis whether it would be necessary to defend against such claims or to seek licenses to the rights referred to in such communications. We may have to litigate to enforce patents issued or licensed to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive and might not bring us timely and effective relief. In certain cases, we may not be able to negotiate necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Also, if we have to defend such claims, we could incur significant expenses and our management’s attention could be diverted from our core business. Further, we may not be able to anticipate claims by others that we infringe on their technology or successfully defend ourselves against such claims. Any litigation resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Historical quarterly results may not accurately predict our performance due to a number of uncertainties and market factors, and as a result it is difficult to predict our future results. Our operating results historically have fluctuated significantly on both a quarterly and annual basis. We believe that our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly variations based on a wide variety of factors, including: • timing of significant orders, or order cancellations; • changes in our product mix and average selling prices; • modified, adjusted, or rescheduled shipments; • actions by our competitors, including announcements of new products or technological innovations; • availability of disks versus demand for disks; • the cyclical nature of the disk drive industry; • our ability to develop and implement new and efficient manufacturing process technologies; • increases in our production and engineering costs associated with initial design and production of new product programs; • availability and price of key materials; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to execute future product development and production ramps effectively; • fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the US dollar and the Malaysian ringgit; • the ability of our process equipment to meet more stringent future product requirements; • our ability to introduce new products that achieve cost-effective high-volume production in a timely manner, timing of product announcements, and market acceptance of new products; • the availability of our production capacity, and the extent to which we can use that capacity; • changes in our manufacturing efficiencies, in particular product yields and input costs for direct materials, operating supplies and other running costs; • prolonged disruptions of operations at any of our facilities for any reason; • changes in the cost of or limitations on availability of labor; • structural changes within the disk industry, including combinations, failures, and joint venture arrangements; and • changes in tax regulations in foreign jurisdictions that could potentially reduce our tax incentives in areas such as Malaysian capital allowances, tax holidays, and exemptions on withholding tax on royalty payments made by our Malaysian operations to our subsidiary in the Netherlands. We cannot forecast with certainty the impact of these and other factors on our revenues and operating results in any future period. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expectations as to future revenues. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed and difficult to reduce or modify. The fixed nature of our operating expenses will magnify any adverse effect of a decrease in revenue on our operating results. Because of these and other factors, period to period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not a good predictor of our future performance. If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts, our stock price may decline. Our ability to predict demand for our products and our financial results for current and future periods may be affected by economic conditions. This may adversely affect both our ability to adjust production volumes and expenses and our ability to provide the financial markets with forward-looking information. If our revenue levels are below expectations, our operating results are likely to suffer. If we make unprofitable acquisitions or are unable to successfully integrate future acquisitions, our business could suffer. We have in the past acquired, and in the future may acquire, businesses, products, equipment, or technologies that we believe will complement or expand our existing business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies, especially given the specialized nature of our technology; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • assume liabilities; • record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; 19 Table of Contents • incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • incur large and immediate write-offs; or • become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that any future acquisitions by us will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. The failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even if an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to products or the integration of the company into our company. The nature of our operations makes us susceptible to material environmental liabilities, which could result in significant compliance and clean-up expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign regulations relating to: • the use, storage, discharge, and disposal of hazardous materials used during our manufacturing process; • the treatment of water used in our manufacturing process; and • air quality management. We are required to obtain necessary permits for expanding our facilities. We must also comply with new regulations on our existing operations, which may result in significant costs. Public attention has increasingly been focused on the environmental impact of manufacturing operations that use hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations or fail to obtain the necessary permits: • we could be subject to significant penalties; • our ability to expand or operate in California or Malaysia could be restricted; • our ability to establish additional operations in other locations could be restricted; or • we could be required to obtain costly equipment or incur significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Even if we are in compliance in all material respects with all present environmental regulations, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. If we have to make significant capital expenditures or pay significant expense in connection with remedial actions or to continue to comply with applicable environmental laws, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Furthermore, our manufacturing processes rely on the use of hazardous materials, and any accidental hazardous discharge could result in significant liability and clean-up expenses, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we may have to defend against lawsuits in connection with the operation of our business. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. If we do not prevail in any lawsuit which may occur we could be subject to significant liability for damages, our patents and other proprietary rights could be invalidated, and we could be subject to injunctions preventing us from taking certain actions. If any of the above occurs, our business and financial position could be harmed. Earthquakes, tsunamis or other natural or man-made disasters could disrupt our operations. Our US facilities are located in San Jose, California. In addition, Kobe Steel, Ltd. and other Japanese suppliers of our key manufacturing supplies and sputtering machines are located in areas with seismic activity. Our Malaysian operations have been subject to temporary production interruptions due to localized flooding, disruptions in the 20 Table of Contents delivery of electrical power, and, on one occasion in 1997, by smoke generated by large, widespread fires in Indonesia. If any natural or man-made disasters do occur, operations could be disrupted for prolonged periods, and our business would suffer. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility, including the war in Iraq, have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets, and have significantly increased the political, economic, and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Acts of terrorism, either domestic or foreign, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Compliance with the rules and regulations concerning corporate governance may be costly, time-consuming, and difficult to achieve, which could harm our operating results and business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the Act), which was signed into law in October 2002, mandates that, among other things, companies maintain rigorous corporate governance measures, and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements. The Act also imposes increased civil and criminal penalties on a corporation, its chief executive and chief financial officers, and members of its board of directors, for securities law violations. In addition, the Nasdaq National Market, on which our common stock is traded, has adopted and is considering the adoption of additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These rules, laws, and regulations have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Because compliance with these rules, laws, and regulations is costly and time-consuming, our management’s attention could be diverted from managing our day-to-day business operations, and our operating expenses could increase. In addition, because of the inherent limitations in all financial control systems, it is possible that, in the future, a material weakness may be found in our internal controls over financial reporting, which could affect our ability to insure proper financial reporting. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. In the future, we may need additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Our business is capital-intensive and we may need more capital in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the rate of our sales growth; • the level of our profits or losses; • the timing and extent of our spending to increase inventories to support our transition to PMR products, support facilities upgrades and product development efforts; • the timing and size of business or technology acquisitions; • the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to our existing products; and • the length of product life cycles. If we require additional capital it is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, if we issue equity securities in connection with additional financing, our stockholders may experience dilution and/or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, if and when needed, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services in a timely manner, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements or may be forced to limit the number of products and services we offer, any of which could seriously harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation could discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change of control. We have in place protective provisions designed to provide our board of directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover is in our and our stockholders’ best interests. Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors. As a result, a person could not take control of the board until the third annual meeting after the closing of the takeover, since a majority of our directors will not stand for election until that third annual meeting. This provision could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the company, and also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including offers at a price above the then-current market price for our common stock. These provisions also may inhibit fluctuations in our stock price that could result from takeover attempts. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We are leveraged, and our debt obligations will continue to make us vulnerable to economic downturns. In 2004, we completed a public common stock offering of 4.0 million shares (of which 0.5 million were sold by selling stockholders) and a public $80.5 million Convertible Subordinated Notes offering. Debt service obligations arising from the offering of our Convertible Subordinated Notes could limit our ability to borrow more money for operations and implement our business strategy in the future. We are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Most of our operations are conducted through, and most of our assets are held by, our subsidiaries. Therefore, we are dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due under the Convertible Subordinated Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividends, loans, or other payments. Our subsidiaries have not guaranteed the payment of the Convertible Subordinated Notes, and payments on the Convertible Subordinated Notes are required to be made only by us. Except to the extent we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, subject to any limitations contained in our debt agreements, all claims of creditors and holders of preferred stock, if any, of our subsidiaries will have priority with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors, including holders of the Convertible Subordinated Notes. The assets of our subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on our debt obligations. We may not have direct access to the assets of our subsidiaries unless these assets are transferred by dividend or otherwise to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us could be subject to various restrictions in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 