Risk Factors Affecting NMHC's Business We face intense competition in the pharmacy benefit management industry. We and other PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. The PBM industry is very competitive and dominated by, in most cases, a few large, profitable and well-established companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources, purchasing power and other competitive advantages. A limited number of national companies, including PBM companies such as Medco Health Solutions Inc., Express Scripts Inc. and Caremark Rx Inc. have an aggregate market share of approximately 70% of prescription volume. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies, and insurance companies/health maintenance organizations. We may also experience competition from new competitors in the future. If we do not compete effectively with our competitors, our business and results of operations may suffer. We rely on a limited number of key clients for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key clients as a result of competitive bidding for contracts, consolidation of clients or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, profitability and growth prospects. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten clients generated approximately 48%, and our top twenty clients generated approximately 59%, of the claims we processed in 2005, although no single client accounted for greater than 20% of our revenues. Many of our clients put their contracts out for competitive bidding prior to expiration. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts on our behalf and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can incur significant expense in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. We could lose clients if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates or if our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Over the past several years, self-funded employers, TPAs and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations by their very nature reduce the number of clients who may need our services. A client involved in a merger or acquisition by a company that is not a client of ours may not renew, and in some instances may terminate, its contract with us. Our clients have been and may continue to be, subject to consolidation pressures. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we were to lose one or more of our significant clients. Demands by our clients for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with our clients could negatively affect our profitability. As our clients face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive PBM environment, and as a result, we may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services which could negatively affect our profitability. Due to the term of our contracts with clients, if we are unable to extend those contracts or replace any lost clients, our future business and results of operation would be adversely affected. We currently provide PBM services to thousands of clients. Our contracts with clients generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, are terminable by the client on relatively short notice. Our larger clients generally seek bids from other PBM providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our client could acquire some of our managed care clients. In such case, the likelihood such client would renew its PBM contract with us could be reduced. If several of these large clients elect not to extend their relationship with us, and we are not successful in generating sales to replace the lost business, our future business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose our pharmacy network affiliations. Our PBM operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our clients and their members. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our clients and their health plan members, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In addition, some large retail pharmacy chains either own or have strategic alliances with PBMs or could attempt to acquire or enter into these kinds of relationships in the future. Ownership of, or alliances with, PBMs by retail pharmacy chains, particularly large pharmacy chains which together control over 45% of retail pharmacy business, could have material adverse effects on our relationships with those retail pharmacy chains, particularly the discounts they are willing to make available, and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by the loss of our relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers decline. We receive rebates from numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. We believe our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if: - we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers; - rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds; - legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or - pharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services. Over the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies, does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our growth in operations has placed significant demands on our management and other resources, which is likely to continue. Our business has grown rapidly since 2000, in part due to acquisitions, with total annual revenue increasing from $167.7 million in 2000 to $800.6 million in 2005. Our business strategy is to continue to seek to expand our operations, including through possible acquisitions. We have acquired seven companies in the last six years. If we are unable to finance our continued growth or manage our future expansion, then our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management and key personnel. Our success depends, in part, upon the continuing contributions of our senior management and key employees, in particular, those that have long-standing relationships with the PBM industry, which we depend on to obtain new clients. Our acquisition of PCN in March 2005 gave us a presence in the California marketplace as well as in the managed Medicaid market, which we did not previously have. Accordingly, it is important for us to retain our existing management and to attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers, managers and employees. Therefore, losing the services of one or more members of our senior management or our key employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to manage potential problems and risks related to future acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy includes making acquisitions involving new markets and complementary products, services, technologies and businesses. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition prospects and negotiate and close transactions. Even if we complete future acquisitions: - we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of an acquired company; - there could be inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated which would make it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems; - we may experience difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided; we would be required to amortize the identifiable intangible assets of an acquired business, which will reduce our net income in the years following its acquisition, and we also would be required to reduce our net income in future years if we were to experience an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets attributable to an acquisition. - we could be exposed to unanticipated liabilities of acquired businesses; - our management's attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and - we could lose key employees or customers of the acquired business. In March 2005, we acquired PCN, which we are in the process of integrating into our business operations. There are risks associated with integrating and operating newly acquired businesses. We can give no assurance that we will successfully operate this new business in the future. If we are unable to overcome the potential problems and inherent risks related to our recent and future acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We may be liable for damages and other expenses that are not covered by our insurance policies. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, for example, the performance of PBM services and the operation of our mail service and specialty pharmacies. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain clients, network pharmacies, and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims. We rely on third parties for our point of sale information system and transaction processing system, and any disruption in these services could materially disrupt our business and results of operations. Our operations utilize an electronic network connecting approximately 53,000 retail pharmacies to process third-party claims. This system is provided by a third-party adjudication vendor. Because claims are adjudicated in real time, systems availability and reliability are key to meeting customers' service expectations. We are also in the process of transitioning to a new third-party adjudication vendor. Any interruption in real time service, either through systems availability or telecommunications disruptions can significantly damage the quality of service we provide. Our PBM services also depend on third-party proprietary software to perform automated transaction processing. There can be no assurance that our business and results of operations will not be materially harmed by service interruptions or software performance problems. Failure of our health plan clients to pay for prescription claims or a delay in payment of those claims could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our contracts with retail pharmacies which participate in our network generally obligate us to make payments for prescription claims even if we are not reimbursed by our clients. If our clients delay their reimbursement payments or fail to make payments for prescription claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties, lose clients, be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations if we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations affect our business and operations. The categories include, but are not necessarily limited to: - health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit certain types of payments and referrals as well as false claims made in connection with health benefit programs; - privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations, including those under HIPAA; - ERISA and related regulations, which regulate many health care plans; - potential regulation of the PBM industry by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; - the Medicare prescription drug coverage law; - consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations; - various licensure laws, such as managed care and third party administrator licensure laws; - pharmacy laws and regulations; - antitrust lawsuits challenging PBM pricing practices; - state legislation regulating PBMs or imposing fiduciary status on PBMs; - drug pricing legislation, including "most favored nation" pricing and "unitary pricing" legislation; - other Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations; - pending legislation regarding importation of drug products into the United States; - legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions, which limit how our clients can design their drug benefit plans; - network pharmacy access laws, including "any willing provider" and "due process" legislation, that affect aspects of our pharmacy network contracts; and - formulary development and disclosure laws. These and other regulatory matters are discussed in more detail under "Business -- Government Regulation" below. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We must devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Congress is also currently considering proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase governmental involvement in health care and PBM services and may otherwise change the way our clients do business. Our clients and prospective clients may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by cutting back or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. These proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. In addition, both Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider legislation to increase governmental regulation of managed care plans. Some of these initiatives would, among other things, require that health plan participants have greater access to drugs not included on a plan's formulary and give health plan participants the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. The scope of the managed care reform proposals under consideration by Congress and state legislatures and enacted by states to date vary greatly, and we cannot predict the extent of future legislation. However, these initiatives could greatly limit our business practices and impair our ability to serve our clients. The Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) creates a voluntary outpatient prescription drug benefit, which will provide both new risks and opportunities for PBMs to participate in the Medicare program. There are many uncertainties presented by the MMA, which influenced our decision not to apply to become a prescription drug plan (PDP) sponsor for January 1, 2006. We may consider bidding to become either a PDP or a fallback plan in one or more regions for the outpatient prescription drug benefit in the future. Possible effects of the MMA include: - New opportunities for PBMs created by MMA may bring new entrants into the PBM industry, thereby increasing competition and impacting profitability; - The implicit role PBMs will play in the outpatient prescription drug benefit program will increase governmental scrutiny on the industry; - PDPs will be risk-bearing entities, paid on a capitated basis, which may impact profitability; and - If we apply and are chosen as a PDP, this will be the first time we are a direct contractor to the federal government and subject to the rules, regulations and enforcement authority of the federal government over its contractors. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare prescription drug program, and we can give no assurance that these risks will not be material to our business in future periods. Failure to develop new products, services and delivery channels may adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We develop new products and services from time to time to assist our clients in managing their pharmacy benefit. If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative products and services, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients may suffer. Technology is also an important component of our business, as we continue to utilize new and better channels, such as the Internet, to communicate and interact with our clients, members and business partners. If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new clients, retain existing clients and operate efficiently may suffer. Our leverage and debt service obligations could impede our operations and flexibility. As of June 30, 2005, we had consolidated debt of approximately $1.9 million and our debt as a percentage of equity was 2%. In January 2005, we negotiated a $65 million credit facility with a syndicate of commercial banks led by JPMorgan ("JPMorgan credit facility"). We could have substantial interest expense and future repayment obligations. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have important consequences, including the following: - we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations; - we may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under our JPMorgan credit facility, which is subject to a variable interest rate, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; - we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and react to changes in market or industry conditions; - we could be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and - we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. Furthermore, our ability to satisfy our obligations, including our debt service requirements, will be dependent upon our future performance. Factors which could affect our future performance include, without limitation, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and which affect our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations. Our JPMorgan credit facility is secured by our consolidated assets. If we are unable to meet our obligations under the JPMorgan credit facility, these creditors could exercise their rights as secured parties and take possession of our assets. This would materially adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Risks related to bioterrorism and mail tampering, and mail irradiation and other procedures the government may implement to manage these risks, could adversely affect and limit the growth of our mail service business. Many prescription drugs are delivered directly to our consumers through the mail. In particular, our mail service pharmacies send thousands of parcels a week through the U.S. Postal Service and other couriers. A number of our contracts also require us to deliver prescriptions within a designated period of time on average following receipt of an order. We have no control, however, over delays caused by disruptions to the U.S. mail or other courier services. Moreover, should the risks related to bioterrorism or mail tampering increase or mail service experience interruptions or significant delays, we may have difficulty satisfying our contractual performance obligations and consumers may lose confidence in our mail service pharmacies. Additionally, the use of mail irradiation devices, if implemented, could be harmful to pharmaceutical products shipped via the mail. We understand that this technology is not in general use and the U.S. Postal Service has not announced plans to use irradiation screening on prescription medicines. However, should the federal government implement mail irradiation technology to protect national security due to the risks of bioterrorism via the mail or for other unforeseen reasons, safe and reliable delivery of prescription drugs through the mail may be difficult. If any of these events occur, we could be forced to temporarily or permanently discontinue our mail service operations and we would lose an important competitive advantage. Any disruption of or failure in our automated mail service pharmacy or our data center could significantly reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients. Our automated pharmacy and mail service delivery system is located in Miramar, Florida. Our main data center, located in Port Washington, provides primary support for all applications and systems required for our business operations, including our claims processing, billing, and communications. These facilities depend on the infrastructure in the areas where they are located and on the uninterrupted operation of our computerized dispensing systems and our electronic data processing systems. Significant disruptions at any of these facilities due to failure of our technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients. Government Regulation The activities of PBMs such as NMHC are subject to regulation at the federal and state levels. NMHC believes that its operations, as currently conducted, substantially comply with the laws and regulations material to the operation of its business. However, the application of complex standards to the detailed operations of our business creates areas of uncertainty. Regulatory authorities have very broad discretion to interpret and enforce these laws and to promulgate corresponding rules and regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in criminal and/or civil fines and penalties, injunctive relief to prevent future violations, other sanctions, loss of professional licensure and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. There can be no assurance that NMHC has interpreted the applicable laws and regulations in the same way as regulatory or judicial authorities, or that the laws and regulations and/or the interpretation thereof will not change. To date, our business activities and relationships with sponsors, pharmacies, rebate administrators, plan participants, and brokers have not been the subject of regulatory investigation or review on either the state or the federal level. Moreover, the states and federal government continue to propose new legislation that may, if enacted, have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability or growth prospects. A more detailed analysis of certain laws and regulations and proposed legislation affecting the business, operations and relationships of NMHC is set forth below. Anti-Kickback Statutes The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits knowingly paying or receiving remuneration in return for referring an individual for the furnishing of an item or service, or for the purchasing, ordering or arranging for any item or service, for which payment may be made in whole or in part under a federally funded health care program, including Medicare, Medicaid and the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, "CHAMPUS/Tricare,". Regulations have been adopted under the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute which provide safe harbors for certain remuneration arrangements that might otherwise violate the statute, such as properly reported discounts (including certain rebates) received from vendors and properly disclosed payments made by vendors to group purchasing organizations. The failure to fall within a safe harbor does not automatically mean that an arrangement is unlawful, although it may result in heightened scrutiny or challenge. Many states, including several in which NMHC does business, have adopted laws similar in scope to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute (sometimes including similar safe harbors), and these state laws often are applicable to services for which payment may be made by anyone, including commercial insurers and private pay patients, not just payments made under a federal health care program. Violation of these anti-kickback laws may result in criminal and civil penalties as well as exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute has been broadly interpreted by the courts, the Office of Inspector General (the "OIG") of the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS"), and pertinent administrative bodies. Courts have ruled that a violation of the statute exists even if only one purpose of the remuneration was to induce patient referrals or purchases. Also, the OIG has identified as possibly improper under the statute so-called "product conversion" programs, pursuant to which pharmaceutical manufacturers provide incentives to physicians and pharmacies to change a prescription to a drug made by the pharmaceutical manufacturer, or recommend such a change. We are not aware of any instance in which the Anti-Kickback Statute has been applied (i) to prohibit independent PBMs, such as NMHC, from receiving rebates from drug manufacturers based on drug sales by pharmacies to plan participants, or (ii) to properly structured contractual relationships between independent PBMs and their sponsors and participating pharmacies. The Federal Anti-Kickback statute has also been cited as a partial basis for investigations and multi-state settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to retail pharmacies in connection with product conversion programs. Additionally, certain governmental entities have commenced investigations of companies in the pharmaceutical services industry and have identified issues concerning development of preferred drugs lists, therapeutic substitution programs, pricing of pharmaceutical products and discounts from prescription drug manufacturers. Several pharmaceutical manufacturers have entered into settlement agreements with the federal government concerning marketing and pricing practices. Further, at least one state has filed a lawsuit concerning similar issues against a health plan. We believe that NMHC is in compliance with the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws and to date, NMHC has not been the subject of any such suit or investigation. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not be subject to challenge or a proceeding under the Anti-Kickback Statute, the regulations there under or any similar state laws. Any such challenge or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, regardless of whether NMHC is found to have violated such statutes or regulations. On April 28, 2003, the OIG issued its Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers ("OIG Guidance") aimed at advising pharmaceutical manufacturers on how to establish compliance programs that will ensure compliance with state and federal laws and regulations. The OIG Guidance encourages pharmaceutical manufacturers to evaluate some areas of legal risk in structuring their compliance program, including the relationship between pharmaceutical manufacturers and PBMs. In particular, the OIG Guidance describes the negotiation of discount rebates and administration fees, as well as formulary support activities, as areas of potential legal risk. Although NMHC believes that its business practices and direct arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers are in compliance with the OIG Guidance, it cannot guarantee that the arrangements between its third party rebate administrator and the pharmaceutical manufacturers are in compliance with the OIG Guidance. In addition, if the industry perceives the OIG Guidance as leading to greater scrutiny of PBMs, pharmaceutical manufacturers and sponsors, may seek to alter rebate arrangements, which could adversely affect our profitability. Stark Law The federal physician self-referral law, known as the "Stark Law," prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries for "designated health services," including outpatient prescription drugs, to any entity with which the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has a financial relationship. The law also prohibits the entity receiving a prohibited referral from presenting a claim to Medicare or Medicaid for the designated health service furnished under the prohibited referral. In addition, the Stark Law contains certain statutory and regulatory exceptions for physician referrals and physician financial relationships. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services published final regulations under the Stark Law which provides guidance on interpretation of the scope and exceptions of the Stark Law. Possible penalties for violation of the Stark Law include denial of payment, refund of amounts collected in violation of the statute, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and Medicare and Medicaid program exclusion. Our specialty and mail service pharmacies dispense certain outpatient prescription drugs that may be directly or indirectly reimbursed by the Medicare or Medicaid programs, potentially making them subject to the Stark Law's requirements. However, we do not believe that we receive any physician referrals that would violate the Stark Law. State Self-Referral Laws Our mail service and specialty pharmacy operations may also be subject to state statutes and regulations that prohibit payments for referral of individuals from or by physicians to health care providers with whom the physicians have a financial relationship. These state laws and their exceptions may vary from the federal Stark Law and vary significantly from state to state. Some of these state statutes and regulations apply to items and services reimbursed by private payors. Violation of these laws may result in prohibition of payment for items or services provided, loss of pharmacy or health care provider licenses, fines and criminal penalties. State self-referral laws are often vague, and, in many cases, have not been widely interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies. Nonetheless, NMHC believes it is in substantial compliance with such laws. Statutes Prohibiting False Claims and Fraudulent Billing Activities A range of federal and state civil and criminal laws target false claims and fraudulent billing activities. One of the most significant of these laws is the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil penalties for knowingly making a false claim or the making of a false record or statement in order to secure reimbursement from a government sponsored program, such as Medicare and Medicaid. A few federal district courts have recently interpreted the False Claims Act as applying to claims for reimbursement that violate the anti-kickback statute or federal physician self-referral law under certain circumstances. In recent years, the federal government has launched several initiatives aimed at uncovering practices that violate false claims or fraudulent billing laws. Claims under these laws may be brought either by the government or by private individuals on behalf of the government through a "whistleblower" action. Because such actions are filed under seal and may remain secret for years, there can be no assurance that neither NMHC nor any of its subsidiaries are named in a material action. The False Claims Act and other related or similar laws generally provide for the imposition of civil penalties and for treble damages, resulting in the possibility of substantial financial penalties for small billing errors that are replicated in a large number of claims as well as potential criminal penalties. The federal government has entered into settlement agreements with several companies in the pharmaceutical services industry following claims by the federal government that such parties violated the Federal False Claims Act by: (i) improperly marketing and pricing drugs; (ii) overstating the average wholesale prices of products; (iii) paying illegal remuneration to induce the purchase of drugs; and/or (iv) failing to accurately report "best price" under the Medicaid program. Nonetheless, NMHC believes it is in substantial compliance with such laws. Regulations Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality The federal government and most states regulate the dissemination and use of personally identifiable health information about a patient. Many of our activities involve the receipt, use and disclosure by us of protected health information ("PHI"), including disclosure of PHI to a patient's health benefit plan. In addition, we may use de-identified data for research and analytical purposes. In December 2000, HHS issued final regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA") regarding the privacy of individually identifiable health information (the "Privacy Rule"). The Privacy Rule, which became effective April 14, 2003, imposes extensive requirements on the way in which covered entities and their business associates use and disclose PHI. PBMs, in general, are not considered covered entities when performing PBM services. However, our clients are covered entities, and are required to enter into "business associate agreements" with vendors, such as PBMs, that perform a function or activity for the covered entity that involves the use or disclosure of PHI. The business associate agreements mandated by the Privacy Rule create a contractual obligation for the PBM to perform its duties for the covered entity in compliance with the Privacy Rule. We have entered into business associate agreements as required by our clients. We are a "covered entity" with respect to providing service through our mail service and specialty pharmacies, and we have entered into business associate agreements with our vendors or other parties with which we share PHI and have provided Notice of Privacy Practices to individuals describing how the relevant pharmacy uses and discloses PHI for treatment, payment and healthcare operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our business associate and covered entity obligations. In August 2000, HHS issued final regulations under HIPAA on standards for electronic transactions and code sets to be used by health plans, healthcare providers, and healthcare clearinghouses in those transactions (the "Transaction Standards and Code Sets"), with a compliance date of October 16, 2003. The Transaction Standards and Code Sets adopt national, uniform standards that must be used if a healthcare provider or health plan conducts certain electronic transactions with another healthcare provider or health plan. These regulations also mandate the use of certain code sets in connection with the standard transactions. NMHC has made the necessary arrangements to provide electronic transactions that are in compliance with these regulations. In April 2003, HHS also issued final regulations under HIPAA governing the security of electronic PHI, with an initial compliance date of April 20, 2005 (the "Security Rule"). The Security Rule imposes general requirements on health care providers, health plans, healthcare clearinghouses, and their business associates relating to the storage, utilization, and transmission of electronic PHI. To date, NMHC believes that it has implemented the necessary administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality of electronic PHI. Sanctions for failing to comply with HIPAA standards and requirements include civil sanctions and criminal penalties for certain violations. In addition to the federal health information privacy regulations described above, most states have enacted healthcare information confidentiality laws which limit the disclosure of health related confidential information. The Privacy Rule under HIPAA does not preempt state laws regarding health information privacy that are more restrictive than HIPAA. In addition, NMHC has adopted the standards of communication for the PBM industry set by the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs, and performs risk assessments, employee training with respect to patient confidentiality, and evaluations of business practices in order to continue to support patient privacy. To date, no additional privacy legislation has been enacted that materially restricts our ability to provide our services; however, it is possible that new laws or regulations further restricting the dissemination or use of such information could be adopted, or that existing laws and regulations will be interpreted in such a manner as to further restrict our ability to obtain and use information about our plan participants. Such new laws or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. ERISA NMHC provides services to a number of sponsors which are self-funded health plans. These plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, which imposes certain obligations on those deemed fiduciaries of the health plans. NMHC administers pharmacy benefit plans according to the plan design choices made by the health plan sponsor. We believe that our activities are sufficiently limited that we do not assume any of the fiduciary responsibilities of the sponsor and thus would not be regulated as a fiduciary under ERISA. In addition, our current form agreement with sponsors specifically identifies the scope of our services and provides that we are not a fiduciary of the plan. Although courts have declined to extend ERISA fiduciary obligations to managed care companies, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Department of Labor (which enforces ERISA) or a court will not assert that NMHC (or some other PBM) has a fiduciary obligation in connection with our activities on behalf of our self-funded sponsors. If NMHC is deemed to be a fiduciary, we could potentially be subject to claims regarding benefit denials and breach of fiduciary duties in connection with our provision of services. Several lawsuits have currently been filed against other PBMs, alleging that the relevant PBM is a fiduciary under ERISA and is in breach of its fiduciary obligations. To date, one has settled and the others remain outstanding. On May 25, 2004, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York accepted a class action settlement proposed by Medco Health Solutions, Inc. in a lawsuit that alleged that Medco was a functional fiduciary under ERISA and violated its fiduciary obligations by, among other things, failing to make adequate disclosures regarding certain rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers and steering clients toward more expensive pharmaceuticals with higher rebates benefiting Medco and its parent company at the time, Merck & Co., Inc. Pursuant to the settlement, Medco will pay $42.5 million into a settlement fund to be distributed to plan participants. In addition, Medco will implement and continue certain business practices aimed at increasing transparency around formulary decisions and therapeutic interchanges. Medco has not admitted, and the settlement does not require Medco to admit, any wrongdoing under ERISA or otherwise. On July 26, 2004, private litigants filed suit against Caremark, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee alleging that Caremark, Inc. was a fiduciary under ERISA and violated its ERISA fiduciary duties by, among other things, failing to disclose the existence and extent of manufacturer rebates, concealing the "spread" on pharmacy claims to the detriment of ERISA plans and conspiring with pharmaceutical manufacturers to inflate AWP. In addition to the cases discussed above, numerous other lawsuits have been filed against various PBMs by private litigants, whether a Plan participant on behalf of an ERISA plan or by the ERISA Plan sponsor, alleging that the PBMs are ERISA fiduciaries and that, in such capacity, they allegedly violated ERISA fiduciary duties in connection with certain business practices related to their respective contracts with retail pharmacy networks and/or pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition to its fiduciary provisions, ERISA imposes civil and criminal liability on service providers to health plans and certain other persons if certain forms of illegal remuneration are made or received. These provisions of ERISA are similar, but not identical, to the healthcare anti-kickback statutes discussed elsewhere in this Government Regulation section, and they do not contain the statutory and regulatory "safe harbor" exceptions included in other healthcare statutes. These provisions of ERISA are broadly written, and we cannot be certain of the extent to which they could be deemed applicable to the conduct of our business. Effective January 2004, the Department of Labor issued claims procedure regulations ("Claims Rules") that create standards applicable to sponsors that are regulated under ERISA for initial and appeal level decisions, time frames for decision making, and enhanced disclosure rights for claimants. NMHC has implemented and will continue to implement in the future, changes to its operational processes, as necessary to accommodate its sponsors' compliance needs under the Claims Rules. FDA Regulation The United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") generally has authority to regulate drug promotional materials that are disseminated "by or on behalf" of a pharmaceutical manufacturer. In January 1998, the FDA published a Notice and Draft Guidance for Industry regarding its intent to regulate certain drug promotion and therapeutic substitution activities performed by PBMs that are controlled, directly or indirectly by pharmaceutical manufacturers. The FDA was concerned that pharmaceutical manufacturers might attempt to avoid FDA regulation in connection with the promotion of their drugs by utilizing PBMs to conduct the marketing activity. The FDA effectively withdrew the draft guidance in the fall of 1998. NMHC is not owned or controlled by a pharmaceutical manufacturer, but it does have contractual relationships with them. Although the draft guidance has effectively been withdrawn, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not again attempt to assert jurisdiction over certain aspects of the business of PBMs in the future, which could materially adversely affect our operations. Medicare Prescription Drug Benefits Reforms The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (the "MMA"), which was enacted in 2003, creates a new voluntary prescription drug benefit under the Social Security Act ("Medicare Drug Benefit"). The MMA initially established a transitional voluntary, Medicare-endorsed prescription drug discount card program ("Medicare Card Program"), effective as of June 1, 2004, which is to remain in place until completion of enrollment in the Medicare Drug Benefit in 2006. PBMs are playing a central role in the Medicare Card Program, either through direct sponsor contracts with The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") or indirectly as a subcontractor with an endorsed sponsor of the Medicare Card Program. NMHC has entered into a contract with MemberHealth, Inc., an endorsed sponsor, for the provision of rebate administration services to enrollees in MemberHealth's card program. Specifically, NMHC negotiates and enters into rebate agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers and collects rebates on behalf of the enrollees. In return, we receive an administrative fee for our services. Beginning in January 2006, Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Part A or enrolled in Part B, as well as certain other Medicare enrollees, will be eligible for outpatient prescription drug benefits under the MMA ("Medicare Part D"). On January 21, 2005, CMS issued final rules implementing the portions of the MMA relating to the prescription drug plans (PDP). The MMA imposes various requirements on PDP sponsors and Medicare Advantage plans that offer drug coverage, including requirements relating to the prescription drug benefits offered, the disclosure of negotiated price concessions made available by drug manufacturers, pharmacy access and participation, and the development and application of formularies. To the extent that we serve as a PDP sponsor or provide services to PDP sponsors and Medicare Advantage plans, we will be required to comply with the applicable provisions of the MMA and CMS regulations. Although we are continuing to assess the impact that Medicare Part D will have on our sponsors' decisions to continue to offer a prescription drug benefit to their Medicare-eligible members, our sponsors will have a variety of options to consider for providing drug coverage to their retirees. We intend to assist our sponsors in making an informative decision on the type of drug coverage they will provide to their retirees. In doing so, we intend to support our sponsors through their Medicare Advantage programs and to support other sponsors who are applying to be a Medicare Part D sponsor by serving as the pharmacy benefit manager using CMS-approved tools and infrastructure, assisting employer sponsors in continuing to offer a traditional retiree prescription drug benefit that qualifies for the federal subsidy, and offering alternative approaches for employers to save under the MMA. In all cases, we will be required to comply with the extensive, detailed requirements of the Medicare laws and regulations which could have a significant impact on our operations, products and services. Consumer Protection Laws The federal government and most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations and multi-state settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies in connection with drug switching programs. In addition, most states have enacted consumer protection laws relating to a broad range of managed health care activities, including provider contracting, participant appeals and access to services and supplies. Although we believe we are compliant with consumer protection laws, there can be no assurance that our operations will not be subject to challenge or scrutiny under one or more state laws. Regulations Applicable to Health Care Professionals All states regulate the practice of medicine, nursing, and other licensed health professions. To our knowledge, no PBM has been found to be engaging in the practice of medicine or nursing by reason of its health management services. Activities deemed by a state's regulatory authority to constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or any other licensed health profession without the proper license would subject the actor to the penalties provided under such state's laws. NMHC cannot assure that a regulatory authority in a state in which it engages in PBM services would not assert a contrary position and subject it to sanctions for the unauthorized practice of medicine, nursing, or other licensed health profession. Third Party Administrator, Utilization Review Laws and Preferred Provider Organizations Many states have licensure or registration laws regulating certain types of managed care organizations, including, third party administrators ("TPAs"), companies that provide utilization review services, and preferred provider organizations ("PPOs"). These laws differ from state to state, and their application to PBMs is often unclear. We have registered or are applying to become registered in those states in which we have concluded that such registration or licensure is required. Registration and licensure requirements for PBM activities vary from state to state depending on state agency interpretations. Prior to September 1998, however, we conducted our activities without obtaining any TPA, utilization review or PPO licenses. We may be subject to cease and desist orders, fines and other penalties in a particular state if a state agency changes its interpretation of licensure requirements or if a state agency determines that we were non-compliant prior to the time we were required to obtain a license. There can be no assurance that such an adverse finding by a state agency would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Mail Service Pharmacy Regulation NMHC's mail service and specialty pharmacies, NMHCmail and NMHC Ascend, respectively, distribute drugs throughout the United States. Our mail service fulfillment center is located in Florida and our specialty pharmacy is located in Maine. NMHCmail and NMHC Ascend are each licensed to do business and to deliver controlled substances in its respective state. Some of the states into which NMHCmail and NMHC Ascend deliver pharmaceuticals have laws that require out-of-state mail service pharmacies to register with, or be licensed by, the board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body in such state, in order to mail drugs into that state. NMHCmail and NMHC Ascend have each registered or are in the process of registering in every state that, to its knowledge requires such registration. Some of these states also require out-of-state mail service pharmacies to comply with certain pharmacy laws and regulations of their states, as well as to employ a pharmacist licensed in the state to which the drugs are shipped. We believe that NMHCmail and NMHC Ascend are currently in substantial compliance with state laws and regulations that apply to their mail service pharmacy operations. In addition, we believe that all of NMHCmail's and NMHC Ascend's applications for state registration or licensure will be submitted prior to the delivery of pharmaceuticals into a particular state, but cannot guarantee that we will obtain all of the required state licenses prior to such date. NMHCmail dispenses prescription drugs for refills pursuant to orders received through the internet from plan participants. Accordingly, NMHCmail will be subject to certain federal and state laws affecting on-line pharmacies. Several states have proposed legislation to regulate on-line pharmacies, and federal regulation by the FDA or other federal agency of on-line pharmacies has been proposed. NMHCmail's pharmacy operations could be materially adversely affected if such legislation is enacted and restricts our ability to offer our services. Other statutes and regulations may affect the operations of the mail service pharmacies. For example, the Federal Trade Commission requires mail service sellers of goods generally to engage in truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the products sold, to fill mail service orders within 30 days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. In addition, the United States Postal Service ("USPS") has statutory authority to restrict the delivery of drugs and medicines through the mail. However, to date, the USPS has not imposed any such restriction that would affect the mail service operations of NMHC. There are also regulations governing the repacking of drug products, wholesale distribution, dispensing of controlled substances, medical waste disposal and clinical trials. In addition, federal statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and the dispensing of controlled substances. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all such rules and regulations affecting our mail service and specialty pharmacy operations. Antitrust Numerous lawsuits have been filed throughout the United States under various state and federal antitrust laws by retail pharmacies against drug manufacturers, wholesalers and major PBMs, challenging certain brand drug pricing practices. An adverse outcome in any of these lawsuits could require defendant drug manufacturers to provide the same types of discounts on pharmaceuticals to retail pharmacies and buying groups as are provided to PBMs and managed care entities to the extent that their respective abilities to influence market share are comparable. This practice, if generally followed in the industry, could increase competition from pharmacy chains and buying groups and reduce or eliminate the availability of certain discounts currently received in connection with our drug purchases. The loss of such discounts could have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, to the extent PBMs appear to have actual or potential market power in a relevant market, business arrangements and practices may be subject to heightened scrutiny from an anti-competitive perspective and possible challenge by state or federal regulators or private parties. Regulation of PBMs The federal government currently does not directly regulate the activities of PBMs. Several states, however, have introduced legislation in recent years which, if enacted, would directly regulate the activities of PBMs. To date a handful of jurisdictions have enacted such statutes, which vary widely in their requirements. In Maine in particular, the statute requires PBMs that derive any payments from rebates and other discounts to pass such amounts in full to the sponsors or their members and imposes fiduciary duties and disclosure obligations upon PBMs. The industry's trade association, Pharmaceutical Care Management Association ("PCMA") has filed suit in federal courts in Maine and in the District of Columbia (whose law is similar to the Maine statute) alleging, among other things, that these statutes are preempted by ERISA with respect to welfare plans that are subject to ERISA. In the Maine case the magistrate has recommended that the District Court judge find that the statute is not pre-empted by ERISA. That decision is not final. The District of Columbia case is still pending. North Dakota and South Dakota have also recently passed legislation regulating PBMs, Gerogia has a law in place primarily relating to the practice of pharmacy, and Maryland has PBM specific laws that are less onerous than the Maine and District of Columbia laws. Widespread enactment of such statutes could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with such laws and requirements where required and continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments. However, to the extent states in which we do business enact bills that regulate the activities of PBMs in a comprehensive manner, such bills could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, statutes have been introduced in several states which purport to declare that a PBM is a fiduciary with respect to its sponsors. The fiduciary obligations that such statutes would impose would be similar, but not identical, to the scope of fiduciary obligations under ERISA. To date no such statute has been enacted. In addition, several influential bodies, including the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy, and the National Committee on Quality Assurance, are considering proposals to regulate PBMs and certain of their activities, such as formulary and utilization management and downstream risk assumption. If these or other similar bodies adopt model acts which would regulate the activities of PBMs, states may be influenced to incorporate such model acts into their statutes. If laws directly regulating PBMs are passed in states in which NMHC does business, such laws could materially affect our operations. Legislation and Regulation Affecting Drug Prices Some states have adopted legislation and regulations requiring that a pharmacy participating in the state Medicaid program provide program patients the best price that the pharmacy makes available to any third party plan ("most favored nation pricing" legislation). Such legislation and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to negotiate discounts in the future from network pharmacies and on the reimbursement we receive from Medicaid programs. Other states have enacted "unitary pricing" legislation, which mandates that all wholesale purchasers of drugs within the state be given access to the same discounts and incentives. A number of states have also recently introduced legislation seeking to control drug prices through various statutory limits, rebates or discounts extending to one or more categories of the state's population. This legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to negotiate discounts on the purchase of prescription drugs from our network pharmacies or manufacturers or otherwise discourage the use of the full range of our services by current or future customers. In addition, some manufacturers may view these laws and policies as a disincentive to provide discounts to private purchasers, such as our customers, which could adversely affect our ability to control plan costs. Several states have introduced bills for broad drug price controls that would extend price controls beyond the Medicaid program. Some bills impose a ceiling on drug prices based on the Federal Supply Schedule and require that pharmacies extend this pricing to one or more segments of the state's population, such as to all Medicare beneficiaries. If enacted, these bills could adversely affect our reimbursement rate for prescriptions. Several states have introduced legislation that would require state agencies that purchase prescription drugs to consolidate their purchasing activities under a single contract. The State of Maine has adopted legislation known as the Maine Rx program, through which the state acts as a bulk purchaser of drugs for its non-Medicaid population. A number of states have proposed similar bills supporting use of non-profit PBMs to leverage their purchase volume for prescription drugs. To the extent these bills are enacted, they could adversely affect our ability to effectively do business in such states. The federal and state government has increased their scrutiny on the method used by drug manufacturers in developing pricing information, which in turn is used in setting payments under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. One element that is common in the pricing information is the average wholesale price, or AWP, which is the standard pricing measure used by the pharmaceutical industry and PBMs in calculating drug prices. If the method of calculating AWP is changed by the government, it could adversely affect our ability to effectively negotiate discounts with pharmaceutical manufacturers, pharmacies and sponsors. In addition, it could affect the reimbursement the mail service pharmacy would receive from managed care organizations that contract with government health programs to provide prescription drug benefits. Under the MMA, effective January 1, 2005, AWP will no longer serve as the basis for Medicare Part B Drug reimbursement, except for certain vaccines, infusion drugs furnished through durable medical equipment and for blood and blood products (other than clotting factors). Rather, with certain exceptions, Part B drugs generally will be reimbursed on an average sales price, "ASP," methodology. ASP means a manufacturer's total dollar sales of a product in the United States to all purchasers (excluding certain sales exempted from Medicaid Best Price reporting and "nominal" sales) divided by the total number of such units of such drug or biological products sold by the manufacturer in such quarter. Manufacturers are required to include in ASP calculations all volume discounts, prompt pay discounts, cash discounts, free goods that are contingent on any purchase requirement, chargebacks, and rebates (other than Medicaid rebates). Additionally, beginning in 2005, HHS may include other price concessions in the ASP calculation. The extent to which ASP will be used in pricing outside the Medicare Part B context or changes to how AWP is determined and reported to state and federal programs could alter the calculation of drug prices for federal and/or state programs. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will be adopted, and whether such changes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, the federal Medicaid rebate program requires participating drug manufacturers to provide rebates on all drugs purchased by state Medicaid programs. Manufacturers of brand name products must provide a rebate equivalent to the greater of (a) 15.1% of the "average manufacturer price ("AMP") paid by wholesalers for products distributed to the retail pharmacy class of trade and (b) the difference between AMP and the "best price" available to essentially any customer other than the Medicaid program, with certain exceptions. Some drug manufacturers may see these policies as a disincentive to offering rebates or discounts to private purchasers, including the sponsors NMHC represents. In addition, certain state Medicaid programs only allow for reimbursement to pharmacies residing in the state or in a border state. While we believe that we can service our current Medicaid customers through our existing pharmacies, there can be no assurance that additional states will not enact in-state dispensing requirements for their Medicaid programs. Congress has introduced new legislation to permit reimportation of approved drugs, originally manufactured in the United States, back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at a lower price. However, the FDA must certify to Congress that this program will not pose any additional risk to the public's health and safety and that it will result in a significant cost reduction. This section of the MMA is effective only if the FDA gives its certification, and the FDA has refused to provide such a certification when requested to do so in the past. We have no assurance that the FDA will not change its position and permit the importation of drugs from Canada in the future or that new legislation or regulations will not permit the importation of drugs from the European Union or other countries in the future. Whether and how such a policy will be implemented is unclear. The ultimate impact of such legislation on our business is not known. Several States have also recently passed laws and regulations facilitating and encouraging the importation of drugs into the United States. At this point, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of such laws on our business. Legislation Affecting Plan Design Some states have enacted legislation that regulates various aspects of managed care plans, including provisions relating to pharmacy benefits. For example, some states have adopted "freedom of choice" legislation, which provides that members of a plan may not be required to use network providers, but must instead be provided with benefits even if they choose to use non-network providers, or provide that a plan participant may sue his or her health plan if care is denied. Certain states have introduced or enacted legislation regarding plan design mandates, including legislation that prohibits or restricts therapeutic drug substitution, requires coverage of all drugs approved by the FDA or prohibits denial of coverage for non-FDA approved uses. Other states mandate coverage of certain benefits or conditions. In addition some states have enacted legislation purporting to prohibit HMOs and other health plans from requiring or offering members financial incentives for use of mail service pharmacies. To date, there have been no formal administrative or judicial efforts to enforce any such laws. Although such legislation does not generally apply to us, it may apply to certain of our customers, HMOs and health insurers. If such legislation were to be enacted on a broad scope, it could have the effect of limiting the economic benefits achievable by our customers through pharmacy benefit management. Additionally, in late 2000, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued a decision holding that two ERISA plans discriminated in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by failing to cover oral contraceptives when other preventive medications were covered. As with legislation imposing plan design mandates, this decision may apply to certain of our customers and could have the effect of limiting the economic benefits achievable through pharmacy benefit management if it is applied broadly. Network Access Limitations A majority of states have adopted legislation restricting the ability of health plan sponsors to limit participation in their pharmacy provider network or to remove a provider from the network. These laws may require us or our sponsors to accept for participation in the network any retail pharmacy willing to meet the applicable plan's price and other terms, and may restrict our ability and our sponsors' ability to remove a pharmacy from the network without certain "due process" protections. To date, these statutes have not had a significant impact on our business because for most of our customers, we administer large networks of retail pharmacies and will admit any licensed pharmacy that meets the network's terms, conditions and credentialing criteria. Formulary Restrictions Many states have also begun to enact laws that regulate the development and use of formularies by insurers, HMOs and other third party payors. These laws have included requirements on the development, review and updating of formularies, the role and composition of pharmacy and therapeutics committees, the disclosure of formulary information to health plan members and a process for allowing members to obtain non-preferred drugs without additional cost-sharing where they are medically necessary and the formulary drugs are determined to be inappropriate. Additionally, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners is developing a model drug formulary statute, known as the Health Carrier Prescription Benefit Management Model Act, that, if widely enacted, may eventually provide more uniformity for health plans and PBMs. Among other things, the model act would address the disclosure of formulary information to health plan members, members' access to non-preferred drugs, and the appeals process available to members when coverage of a non-preferred drug is denied by the health plan or PBM. Increasing regulation of formularies by states could significantly affect our ability to develop and administer formularies on behalf of our sponsors. Future Legislation We cannot accurately predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the health care industry in general, or the effect any such legislation or regulation may have on it. There can be no assurance that the federal or state governments will not impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or profitability. Company Information Address and Availability of Information. Our principal executive offices are located at 26 Harbor Park Drive, Port Washington, NY 11050. Its telephone number is (800) 251-3883 and web site is www.nmhcrx.com. We electronically file or furnish our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports (where applicable) and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These filings are available, free of charge, through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains its web site, www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers filing electronically, including NMHC. You may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Room 1024, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Code of Ethics As of September 19, 2003, we have adopted a code of ethics for all of our senior officers. In addition, we have adopted a code of business conduct applicable to all employees. Upon request by contacting NMHC at the address or number above, a copy of the code of ethics will be mailed to such person free of charge. 