Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face intense competition in the PBM industry. We and other PBM companies compete primarily on the basis of price, service, reporting capabilities and clinical services. The PBM industry is very competitive and dominated by, in most cases, a few large, profitable and well-established companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources, purchasing power and other competitive advantages. There are a limited number of national companies, including PBM companies such as Medco, Express Scripts Inc. and Caremark that have a majority of the market share of prescription volume. Furthermore, due to the loss of various customers, we have experienced a 26% decrease in the amount of claims we have processed during fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Our direct competitors, however, are generally the second tier PBMs and virtual PBMs that outsource many of their functions to vendors. Our competitors also include drug retailers, physician practice management companies, and insurance companies/HMOs. Many of our competitors provide lower prices and provide better service than we do. We may also experience competition from new competitors in the future. If we do not compete effectively with our competitors, our business and results of operations may suffer. Recent changes in our senior management may affect our ability to retain customers, to win new business, to maintain employees and attract new personnel. We depend to a significant extent on certain key personnel and senior management, in particular those that have long-standing relationships within the PBM industry, which help us to maintain relationships with certain key customers and to obtain new customers. In fiscal 2007, four members of our senior management team were terminated. The loss of these individuals may affect our ability to retain some of our key customers. In addition, potential customers may view this shift in management as an indicator of uncertainty within NMHC and thus affect our ability to secure the business of potential new customers. Furthermore, our Chief Executive Officer and President is here on an interim basis. We are currently searching for a permanent CEO. There can be no assurances that we will find a CEO on a permanent basis. Accordingly, it is important for us to retain our existing key employees and to attract, hire and retain additional highly skilled and motivated officers, managers and employees. Some of our key employees may voluntarily leave NMHC due to the changes in senior management. The loss of the services of key employees and our inability to attract new personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not successfully integrate our past acquisitions, our business and results of operations will suffer. For the past seven years, a substantial portion of our growth resulted from acquisitions, including specialty pharmacy businesses and PBM businesses meeting specific criteria. We have had difficulty integrating many aspects of these acquisitions into our business. Some of the challenges we face include: 27 Table of Contents • Integrating the operations, services and products of the acquired company; • Managing the inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the companies being combined or assimilated which has made it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information technology and other systems; • Difficulties maintaining the quality of products and services that acquired companies have historically provided; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • Losing key employees and customers of the acquired business. There are risks associated with integrating and operating newly acquired businesses. If we are unable to overcome the potential problems and inherent risks related to our past acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We rely on a limited number of key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers as a result of competitive bidding for contracts, consolidation of customers or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, profitability and growth prospects. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top ten customers generated 49%, and our top twenty customers generated 60%, of the claims we processed during fiscal 2007. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, 16% of our revenue was from Boston Medical Center Health Plan, Inc. a current customer, which is reported within the PBM segment. Many of our customers put their contracts out for competitive bidding prior to expiration. Competitive bidding requires costly and time-consuming efforts on our behalf and, even after we have won such bidding processes, we can incur significant expense in proceedings or litigation contesting the adequacy or fairness of these bidding processes. We could lose customers if they cancel their agreements with us, if we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal, if the financial condition of any of our customers deteriorates or if our customers are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Over the past several years, self-funded employers, TPAs and other managed care companies have experienced significant consolidation. Consolidations by their very nature reduce the number of customers who may need our services. A customer involved in a merger or acquisition by a company that is not a customer of ours may not renew, and in some instances may terminate its contract with us. Our customers have been, and may continue to be, subject to consolidation pressures. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we were to lose one or more of our significant customers. Due to complex calculations within our customer contracts, we may be required to issue significant credit memos to our customers that could adversely affect our business, profitability and growth prospects. Contracts with our customers have complex calculations. We have started to, and are in the process of, implementing procedures to improve our monitoring of material contractual obligations. We continue to issue credit memos to customers related to meeting, among other things, pricing performance guarantees. The continued issuance of credit memos could adversely affect our business, profitability and growth prospects. Due to the complex laws and regulations governing the Medicare program in which we participate, our recorded estimates may materially change in the future, and our failure to fully comply with such laws and regulations may adversely impact our business and financial results. The Medicare Part D program in which we participate is based upon extremely complex laws and regulations that are subject to interpretation. As a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that our 28 Table of Contents recorded estimates of receivables from CMS may change by a material amount in the near term. Additionally, our noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in fines, penalties and exclusion from the Medicare program. Although we are not aware of any allegations of noncompliance that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, we cannot assure you that any instances of noncompliance will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements or results of operations. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with our retail pharmacy networks and with our PBM and Specialty Service customers, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include, but are not limited to, AWP, AMP, Wholesale Acquisition Cost (“WAC”), Actual Acquisition Cost, Alternative Benchmark Price, Direct Price, Federal Upper Limit, Maximum Reimbursable Amount, Net Wholesale Price and Suggested Wholesale Price. Most of our contracts utilize the AWP standard. Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Specifically, in June 2005, a class action lawsuit was commenced in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts by New England Carpenters Health Benefits Fund against FDB, one of several companies that report data on prescription drug prices, and McKesson Corporation. Plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to arbitrarily raise AWP. On October 6, 2006, a settlement was proposed between plaintiffs and defendant FDB. The terms of the settlement include FDB agreeing to (i) lower the reported AWP, (ii) cease publishing AWP after a two year notice period, and (iii) work with major participants in the healthcare industry in court approved discussions intended to facilitate the establishment of a sustainable benchmark for drug reimbursement. On June 7, 2007, the court granted preliminary approval of the terms of the proposed settlement. Final approval of the settlement terms are contingent upon the outcome of the fairness hearing scheduled to take place on November 14, 2007. In light of the preliminary approval of the proposed settlement, final approval is imminent. However, we cannot predict the precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes upon final approval. In the absence of any mitigating action on our part, the proposed reduction in FDB’s AWP would have a material adverse effect on the margin we earn on home delivery transactions. It may also create disruption in our retail networks due to the adverse impact on AWP-based retail pharmacy pricing. However, most of our contracts with our customers and retail pharmacies contain terms that we believe will enable us to mitigate the adverse effect of this proposed reduction in FDB’s reported AWP. Whatever the outcome of the FDB case, we believe that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and benefit management services in the future. Due to these and other uncertainties, we can give no assurance that the short or long term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. We rely on third parties for our point of sale information system and transaction processing system, and any disruption in these services would materially disrupt our business and results of operations. Our operations utilize an electronic network connecting approximately 55,000 retail pharmacies to process third party claims. This system is provided by a third party adjudication vendor. Because claims are adjudicated in real time, systems availability and reliability are key to meeting customers’ service expectations. Any interruption in real time service, either through lack of systems availability or telecommunications disruptions can significantly damage the quality of service we provide. Our PBM services also depend on third party proprietary software to perform automated transaction processing. 29 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our business and results of operations will not be materially harmed by service interruptions or software performance problems. We are in the process of consolidating all customers to a single third party adjudication vendor, one of two that we are currently operating. Any severe interruption during this consolidation process could materially disrupt our business and results of operations. All new customers joining us will utilize our new claims adjudication software, and we are in the process of migrating existing customers to this new software. We have encountered some difficulties in transitioning existing customers to the new software. It is possible that we may experience service interruptions in connection with the introduction of the new software, which may cause affected customers to become dissatisfied with us and seek services elsewhere. Uncertainty regarding the impact of Medicare Part D may adversely impact our business and financial results. The MMA created a new, voluntary prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Medicare benefits under Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B effective January 1, 2006. We currently participate in the administration of the Medicare drug benefit: (i) through the provision of PBM services to our health plan customers and other customers that have qualified as a PDP or a MA-PD, and (ii) by assisting employers, unions and other health plan customers that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS for them in order to obtain the subsidy. Our existing PBM business could be adversely affected if our customers decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits altogether to their Medicare-eligible members. We are not yet able to assess the impact that Medicare Part D will have on our customers’ decisions to continue to offer a prescription drug benefit to their Medicare-eligible members. In addition, as an approved PDP sponsor for calendar year 2007, this is the first time we are a direct contractor to the federal government and subject to the rules, regulations and enforcement authority of the federal government over its contractors. In addition, under regulations established by CMS governing participation in the Medicare Part D program, our subsidiary, NMHC Group Solutions, must be a risk-bearing entity regulated under state insurance laws and must obtain licensure as a domestic insurance company. NMHC Group Solutions has been approved to operate as a risk-bearing entity in its domicile state, Delaware, and has filed applications for licensure in the 49 other states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. We are at various stages with these applications in the ancillary states as eight ancillary states have approved our applications, some states are considering our application, others we have not heard back from and others have been withdrawn for failure to meet certain requirements. We expect to operate under a three year waiver granted by CMS for these other states and territories. These applications are in various stages, and we can give no assurance that they will be approved. We do not intend to continue to provide our PDP to individual Medicare Part D enrollees in 2008 and CMS has acknowledged our intent to provide the PDP Medicare benefits solely to employer groups. In addition, as of January 1, 2008, we will only be providing non-risk bearing Medicare benefits to employer groups that will reimburse us directly for any prescription drug costs. We do not intend to offer our PDP to employer groups in instances where we could be subject to risk. As such, we may be exempt from obtaining risk bearing licensure in the ancillary states and therefore not be subject to the specific state capital, surplus and deposit requirements. We have invested substantial amounts of time and resources to our Medicare drug benefit program. It is uncertain if we will achieve an acceptable return on these investments. We have currently committed approximately $5.2 million in a cash account in connection with CMS requirements. The cash is restricted and will not be available to fund our operations. We do not intend to continue to provide our PDP to individual Medicare Part D enrollees in 2008 and CMS has acknowledged our intent to provide the PDP Medicare benefits solely to employer groups. In addition, as of January 1, 30 Table of Contents 2008, we will only be providing non-risk bearing Medicare benefits to employer groups that will reimburse us directly for any prescription drug costs. We do not intend to offer our PDP to employer groups in instances where we could be subject to risk. If we do not provide our PDP to individual enrollees and employer groups in instances where we could be subject to risk, we may be exempt from obtaining risk bearing licensure in some or all of the ancillary states and therefore not be subject to the specific state capital, surplus and deposit requirements. In addition, we may not be able to realize any return on our investments in Medicare initiatives if the cost and complexity of recent changes by and requirements of CMS exceed our expectations or prevent effective program implementation; if the government alters or reduces funding of Medicare programs because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of the MMA or for other reasons; if we fail to become a risk bearing entity prior to the expiration of the CMS waiver for the 49 other states and territories, (we are in the process of obtaining the appropriate state licenses and are currently licensed in nine states.); if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to our customers or individual Medicare participants; if we are not successful in retaining employer groups and their enrollees, or winning contract renewals or new contracts under the MMA’s competitive bidding process; or if the government alters or reduces funding of Medicare programs because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of the MMA or for other reasons. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare prescription drug program, and we give no assurance that these risks will not be material to our business in future periods. We may be liable for damages and other expenses that are not covered by our insurance policies. Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages, for example, the performance of PBM services and the operation of our Mail Service and Specialty Service pharmacies. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage where we are required to pay damages, incur legal costs or face negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our business reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers, network pharmacies and employees. While we intend to maintain professional and general liability insurance coverage at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future, that insurance will be available on acceptable terms or that insurance will be adequate to cover any or all potential product or professional liability claims. Specifically, due to the high cost of hurricane-related insurance premiums, we may not always be fully insured against these risks, including hurricane related risks in our Mail Service facility located in Miramar, Florida. While it is our goal to be fully insured against natural disasters at all times, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to obtain coverage at favorable rates that outweigh the risks. Demands by our customers for enhanced service levels or possible loss or unfavorable modification of contracts with our customers could negatively affect our profitability. As our customers face the continued rapid growth in prescription drug costs, they may demand additional services and enhanced service levels to help mitigate the increase in spending. We operate in a very competitive PBM environment, and as a result, we may not be able to increase our fees to compensate for these increased services which could negatively affect our profitability. Due to the term of our contracts with customers, if we are unable to renew those contracts or replace any lost customers, our future business and results of operation would be adversely affected. Our contracts with customers generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, are terminable by the customer on relatively short notice. Our larger customers generally seek bids from other PBM providers in advance of the expiration of their contracts. In addition, we believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our customer could acquire some of our managed care customers. In such case, the likelihood such customer would renew its 31 Table of Contents PBM contract with us could be reduced. We have not been very successful in retaining existing customers. If several of our large customers elect not to extend their relationship with us, and we are not successful in generating sales to replace the lost business, our future business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our results of operations could suffer if we lose our pharmacy network affiliations or if our Specialty Service pharmacy is excluded from third party pharmacy networks. Our PBM operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our customers and their participants. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our customers and their health plan participants, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In addition, some large retail pharmacy chains either own or have strategic alliances with PBMs or could attempt to acquire or enter into these kinds of relationships in the future. Ownership of, or alliances with, PBMs by retail pharmacy chains, particularly large pharmacy chains which control a significant amount of retail pharmacy business, could have material adverse effects on our relationships with those retail pharmacy chains, particularly the discounts they are willing to make available, and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specialty Service contracts with third party payors, including other PBMs, Medicaid, Medicare, and insurance companies, to become participants in their networks. We derive 46% of specialty revenues from other third party payors. If Specialty Service is unable to contract with third party payors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by the loss of our relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or with our rebate administrator, or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers or our rebate administrator decline. We receive rebates from numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected brand name drugs by participants of health plans sponsored by our customers, as well as fees for other programs and services. We also receive a per claim rebate amount from our rebate administrator. We believe our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if: • we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or with our rebate administrator; • rebates decline due to the failure of our health plan customers to meet market share or other thresholds; • legal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or • pharmaceutical manufacturers or our rebate administrator choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services. Over the next few years, as patents expire covering many brand name drugs that currently have substantial market share, generic products will be introduced that may substantially reduce the market share of these brand name drugs. Historically, manufacturers of generic drugs have not offered formulary rebates on their drugs. Our profitability could be more adversely affected if the use of newly approved, brand name drugs added to formularies, does not offset any decline in use of brand name drugs whose patents expire or if rebates are not offered by the manufacturers of such newly approved brand name drugs. 32 Table of Contents Failure of our health plan customers to pay for prescription claims or a delay in payment of those claims could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our contracts with retail pharmacies that participate in our network generally obligate us to make payments for prescription claims even if we are not reimbursed by our customers. If our customers delay their reimbursement payments or fail to make payments for prescription claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties, lose customers, be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations if we fail to comply with complex and rapidly evolving laws and regulations. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations affect our business and operations. The categories include, but are not necessarily limited to: • health care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit certain types of payments and referrals as well as false claims made in connection with health benefit programs; • privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations, including those under HIPAA; • ERISA and related regulations, which regulate many health care plans; • potential regulation of the PBM industry by the FDA; • the Medicare prescription drug coverage law and CMS regulations; • consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations; • various licensure laws, such as state insurance, managed care and third party administrator licensure laws; • pharmacy laws and regulations; • antitrust lawsuits challenging PBM pricing practices; • state legislation regulating PBMs or imposing fiduciary status on PBMs; • drug pricing legislation, including “most favored nation” pricing and “unitary pricing” legislation; • other Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations; • pending legislation regarding importation of drug products into the United States; • legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions, which limit how our customers can design their drug benefit plans; • network pharmacy access laws, including “any willing provider” and “due process” legislation, that affect aspects of our pharmacy network contracts; and • formulary development and disclosure laws. These and other regulatory matters are discussed in more detail under “Business — Government Regulation” above. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties. We devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Although we have not been notified, and are not otherwise aware of any material claim or non-compliance, there can be no assurance that we are in compliance with all existing legal requirements material to our business. Different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. 33 Table of Contents Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Congress considers proposals to reform the U.S. health care system on an on-going basis. These proposals may increase governmental involvement in health care and PBM services and may otherwise change the way our customers do business. Our customers and prospective customers may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by cutting back or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. These proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. In addition, both Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider legislation to increase governmental regulation of managed care plans. Some of these initiatives would, among other things, require that health plan participants have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary and give health plan participants the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. The scope of the managed care reform proposals under consideration by Congress and state legislatures and enacted by states to date vary greatly, and we cannot predict the extent of future legislation. However, these initiatives could greatly limit our business practices and impair our ability to serve our customers. Failure to develop new products, services and delivery channels may adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We develop new products and services from time to time to assist our customers in managing their pharmacy benefit. If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative products and services, our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers may suffer. Technology is also an important component of our business, as we continue to utilize new and better channels, such as the Internet, to communicate and interact with our customers, participants and business partners. If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and operate efficiently may suffer. Our leverage and debt service obligations could impede our operations and flexibility. In January 2005, we negotiated a five-year $65 million credit facility with a syndicate of commercial banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JPMorgan credit facility”). As of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we had no outstanding borrowings under the JPMorgan credit facility. If and when we borrow funds under the JPMorgan credit facility, we would incur interest expense and future repayment obligations. Depending on the timing and dollar amount of each loan request, we can either borrow at a spread above LIBOR, the overnight Federal Funds rate or JPMorgan’s prime rate. As of June 30, 2007, the spread is 1.50% for LIBOR and Federal Funds loans and 0.50% for prime rate loans. Borrowings under our debt agreement could have important consequences, including the following: • we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations; • we may from time to time incur indebtedness under our JPMorgan credit facility, which is subject to a variable interest rate, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and react to changes in market or industry conditions; • we could be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. 34 Table of Contents Furthermore, our ability to satisfy our obligations, including our debt service requirements, will be dependent upon our future performance. Factors which could affect our future performance include, without limitation, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and which affect our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flow from operations. Our JPMorgan credit facility is secured by our assets. If we are unable to meet our obligations under the JPMorgan credit facility, these creditors could exercise their rights as secured parties and take possession of our assets. This would materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have a $65,000 revolving credit facility, we currently cannot borrow the full amount under this credit facility and we may be limited, or unable, to borrow under this credit facility in the future. As of June 30, 2007, we were able to borrow approximately $39,000 under the credit facility. If we are in compliance with the consolidated fixed charge ratio, we can then borrow up to 2.5 times the Company’s consolidated EBITDA for the preceding twelve months less consolidated debt, as defined in the credit facility. We are currently in the process of exploring alternative financing arrangements so we can fully access any funds as needed. Risks related to bioterrorism and mail tampering, and mail irradiation and other procedures the government may implement to manage these risks, could adversely affect and limit the growth of our mail and specialty service business. Many prescription drugs are delivered directly to our consumers through the mail. In particular, our Mail Service and Specialty Service pharmacies send thousands of parcels a week through the USPS and other couriers. A number of our contracts also require us to deliver prescriptions within a designated period of time on average following receipt of an order. We have no control, however, over delays caused by disruptions to the USPS or other courier services. Moreover, should the risks related to bioterrorism or mail tampering increase or mail service experience interruptions or significant delays, we may have difficulty satisfying our contractual performance obligations and consumers may lose confidence in our Mail Service and Specialty Service pharmacies. Additionally, the use of mail irradiation devices, if implemented, could be harmful to pharmaceutical products shipped via the mail. We understand that this technology is not in general use and the USPS has not announced plans to use irradiation screening on prescription medicines. However, should the federal government implement mail irradiation technology, safe and reliable delivery of prescription drugs through the mail may be difficult. If any of these events occur, we could be forced to temporarily or permanently discontinue our Mail Service and Specialty Service operations and we would lose an important competitive advantage. Any disruption of or failure in our automated Mail Service pharmacy or our data center could significantly reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our customers. Our automated pharmacy and Mail Service delivery system is located in Miramar, Florida. Our main data center, located in Port Washington, New York, provides primary support for all applications and systems required for our business operations, including our claims processing, billing and communications. These facilities depend on the infrastructure in the areas where they are located and on the uninterrupted operation of our computerized dispensing systems and our electronic data processing systems. Significant disruptions at any of these facilities due to failure of our technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or some other catastrophic event could reduce our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our customers. Although we maintain redundancies and other preventative measures to protect against disruption of these systems, there can be no assurance that redundant systems will in fact operate as intended or with the same effect as the primary systems. 35 Table of Contents Product withdrawal from the market and utilization decreases based off of increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs may cause prescription volumes to decline and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our net revenues and profitability are based on the dispensing of brand-name and generic drugs by our Mail Service and Specialty Service pharmacies and retail pharmacies. Withdrawal of these products by the manufacturers or increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs may cause physicians to cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Also, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may reduce consumer demand for such drugs. In these cases, if there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. The launch of generic pharmaceuticals into the marketplace may impact our financial results. A great deal of our earned rebates on drugs comes from drugs whose patents will expire over the next several years. When these patents expire, generic products will be introduced and may substantially reduce the market share of brand-name drugs and the rebates manufacturers provide to us for their brand-name drugs that are included on the formularies we manage. We may also be unable to negotiate rebates for new brand-name drugs comparable to the rebates we are receiving from brand-name drugs with expiring patents. Even though we generally earn higher margins on generic drugs than we earn on brand-name drugs, manufacturers of newly-introduced generic drugs sometimes benefit from an exclusive marketing period, generally six months, during which time we may be unable to earn these higher margins. Therefore, the typically higher margins we earn on generic drugs and rebates from newly-approved, brand-name drugs may not offset any decline in rebates for brand-name drugs with expired patents. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 