Risk Factors,” or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. In the case of the Notes, although the Notes mature in 2023, the holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase their notes at an additional premium of 0.25% in 2008, which makes it probable that we will be required to repurchase the Notes in 2008 if the Notes are not otherwise converted into our common stock. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, including the Notes and the term loan, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under our other indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The terms of the Notes do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt. In addition, our outstanding indebtedness under the Notes does not restrict our ability to pay dividends, issue or repurchase stock or other securities or require us to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to our financial position or results of operations. Although the Notes do not contain such financial and other restrictive covenants, the documents governing the term loan do include such covenants, including certain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liens, disposition of assets, payment of cash dividends by us to our stockholders and our ability to engage in certain corporate transactions. We are also required to maintain certain minimum interest coverage and leverage ratios. Under the term loan, we are required to repay the principal amount thereof over a three year period. See “Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 below. If we incur additional indebtedness or other liabilities, our ability to pay our obligations on our outstanding indebtedness could be adversely affected. We may be unable to adequately service our indebtedness, which may result in defaults and other costs to us. We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the outstanding obligations due on our indebtedness. Any future borrowing arrangements or debt agreements to which we become a party may contain additional restrictions on or prohibitions against our repayment on our outstanding indebtedness, or otherwise have the effect of making it more difficult to repay our existing outstanding indebtedness. With respect to the Notes, at maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of the Notes will become due and payable. Holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of the Notes on August 15, 2008 for 100.25% of the principal amount, August 15, 2013 for 100.00% of the principal amount and August 15, 2018 for 100.00% of the principal amount. As a result, although the Notes mature in 2023, the holders may require us to repurchase the Notes at an additional premium in 2008, which makes it probable that we will be required to repurchase the Notes in 2008 if the Notes are not otherwise converted into our common stock. If we are prohibited from paying our outstanding indebtedness, we could try to obtain the consent of lenders under those arrangements, or we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain the restrictions. If we do not obtain the necessary consents or refinance the borrowings, we may be unable to satisfy our outstanding indebtedness. Any such failure would constitute an event of default under our indebtedness, which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of any other indebtedness then outstanding. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines which permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, which could potentially hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and will increase the costs of such registration to us. Conversion of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the Notes permit the holders to convert the Notes into shares of our common stock. The Notes are convertible into our common stock initially at a conversion price of $15.65 per share, which would result in an aggregate of approximately 26.8 million shares of our common stock being issued upon conversion, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Prior to the 20 Table of Contents conversion of the Notes, if the trading price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the Notes by 145.00% or more over specified periods, basic earnings per share will be diluted if and to the extent the convertible notes hedge instruments are not exercised. The holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their Notes on August 15, 2008 for 100.25% of the principal amount, on August 15, 2013 for 100.00% of the principal amount or on August 15, 2018 for 100.00% of the principal amount, by providing to the paying agent a written repurchase notice. The repurchase notice must be delivered during the period commencing 30 business days prior to the relevant repurchase date and ending on the close of business on the business day prior to the relevant repurchase date. We may redeem for cash all or any part of the Notes on or after August 15, 2008 for 100.00% of the principal amount, except for those Notes that holders have required us to repurchase on August 15, 2008 or on other repurchase dates, as described above. Each $1,000 of principal of the Notes is initially convertible into 63.879 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Holders of the Notes may convert their Notes prior to maturity only if: (1) the price of our common stock reaches $22.69 during certain periods of time specified in the Notes, (2) specified corporate transactions occur, (3) the Notes have been called for redemption or (4) the trading price of the Notes falls below a certain threshold. As a result, although the Notes mature in 2023, the holders may require us to repurchase their notes at an additional premium in 2008, which makes it probable that we will be required to repurchase the Notes in 2008 if the Notes are not otherwise converted into our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, none of the conditions allowing holders of the Notes to convert had been met. Although the conversion price is currently $15.65 per share, the convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the issuance of the Notes effectively increased the conversion price of the Notes until 2008 to approximately $23.08 per share, which would result in an aggregate issuance upon conversion prior to August 15, 2008 of approximately 18.2 million shares of our common stock. We have entered into convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Notes; however, we cannot guarantee that such convertible notes hedge and warrant instruments will fully mitigate the dilution. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock. We may, at the option of the Noteholders and only in certain circumstances, be required to repurchase the Notes in cash or shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the Notes, we may be required to repurchase the Notes following a significant change in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control, prior to maturity of the Notes. Following a significant change in our corporate ownership or structure, in certain circumstances, we may choose to pay the repurchase price of the Notes in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. If we choose to pay all or any part of the repurchase price of the Notes in shares of our common stock, this would result in dilution to the holders of our common stock. Convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into convertible notes hedge transactions with JP Morgan Chase Bank, an affiliate of one of the initial purchasers of the Notes, at the time of issuance of the Notes, with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. We also entered into warrant transactions. In connection with our convertible notes hedge and warrant transactions, JP Morgan Chase Bank or its affiliates purchased our common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. This entity or its affiliates is likely to modify its hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments it may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock holders will receive upon conversion of the Notes. In addition, subject to movement in the price of our common stock, if 21 Table of Contents the convertible notes hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could be exposed to credit risk related to the other party. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our common stock. We have not requested a rating of the Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the Notes and assigns the Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the Notes and our common stock could be harmed. A resulting decline in the market price of the Notes as compared to the price of our common stock may require us to repurchase the Notes. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our governing documents and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: • Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if the proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 