Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements we make from time to time, including statements in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section hereafter, constitute “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor contained in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include statements relating to our company or our operations that are preceded by terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends” and similar expressions, and statements relating to anticipated growth, acquisitions, levels of capital expenditures, future dividends, expansion into global markets and the development of new products. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from the results, performance or achievements expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Specifically, the risks outlined below could affect the achievement of our expected results. In addition, the risks outlined below may be affected or heightened by the recent economic and credit crisis occurring in the United States and throughout many of the economies in which we operate. This ongoing crisis is characterized by increased volatility and lack of available capital for short and long term financing. It may also affect our ability to obtain additional financing to fund acquisitions or other activities on terms substantially similar to our current debt facilities should that need arise in the future. Any of these factors or the risks outlined as follows could affect our business opportunities and results: Reliance on Metalcasting & Construction Markets Approximately 41% of our minerals segment’s sales in 2008 were to the metalcasting market. Our environmental segment’s sales are predominantly derived from the construction and infrastructure markets. All these markets depend heavily upon the strength of the domestic and international economies. If these economies weaken, demand for our products sold to these industries may decline and our business or future financial results may be adversely affected. Reliance on Oil and Gas Activities Revenues from our oilfield services segment now represent 15% of consolidated revenues and 29% of consolidated operating income. Oil and gas production activities are heavily influenced by the benchmark price of these commodities. In turn, both economic and political events can influence the benchmark price. In addition, the majority of this segment’s sales are derived from the Gulf of Mexico region which is heavily susceptible to hurricanes. All of these factors may ultimately affect the revenue potential of this segment. Earnings (Losses) from Ashapura Minechem Ltd. In 2008, we recorded losses of $0.70 per diluted share from joint ventures and affiliated entities, which is almost entirely related to our investment in Ashapura Minechem Ltd. (“Ashapura”). In 2007 and prior years, Ashapura was a large contributor to our net income. Their main activity is mining bauxite which is used to produce alumina, which in turn is used to produce aluminum. They also mine bentonite. The losses in 2008 stem from Indian government regulations and the market value of foreign currency derivatives owned by Ashapura. Over the past several years, Ashapura’s bauxite business has been particularly strong. However, in 2008, the business has suffered as local government regulators in India stopped Ashapura’s mining of bauxite due to concerns regarding the lack of value-added activities being performed in the local jurisdiction. We do not believe our earnings from Ashapura will reach levels experienced in previous years if Ashapura is not allowed to resume its bauxite mining and processing activities as it has done historically. 13 As of December 31, 2008, a significant portion of losses we recorded in loss from affiliates and joint ventures relate to the losses Ashapura incurred with respect to the fair value of foreign currency derivatives that Ashapura has outstanding. As we are not able to predict the movements of foreign currency exchange rates, we do not know if Ashapura will continue to experience losses on foreign currency derivative contracts. The total losses in 2008 attributable to our 21% equity ownership has reduced our investment in Ashapura to zero as of December 31, 2008. As such, we have suspended the recognition of further losses which amounted to $2,280 as of December 31, 2008. If our investment balance under the equity method of accounting increases in the future, we will recognize a corresponding amount of these losses to offset the increases in carrying value until we have recognized all of the $2,280 of unrecorded losses. If the investment balance under the equity method of accounting does not increase in the future, we will not record further losses under the equity method of accounting. Moreover in 2008, several oceanic shipping companies filed lawsuits against Ashapura claiming damages of $98 million for allegedly violating the terms of long-term shipping contracts with these companies. After considering the factors involved in the lawsuits, Ashapura does not believe it is liable for any damages under these lawsuits and has not recorded any potential losses associated with these lawsuits in its financial statements. Should the factors underpinning this conclusion change and to the extent our investment in Ashapura has a positive carrying value, our financial results may be negatively affected. In addition, should Ashapura not be able to secure freight cargo vessels in the future with these or any other shipping companies, our financial results may be negatively affected. Regulatory and Legal Matters Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental and to health and safety matters. Substantial penalties may be imposed if we violate certain of these laws and regulations even if the violation was inadvertent or unintentional. If these laws or regulations are changed or interpreted differently in the future, it may become more difficult or expensive for us to comply. In addition, investigations or evaluations of our products by government agencies may require us to adopt additional safety measures or precautions. If our costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future materially increase, our business and future financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be subject to adverse litigation results in addition to increased compliance costs arising from future changes in laws and regulations that may negatively impact our operations and profits. Risks of International Expansion An important part of our business strategy is to expand internationally. We intend to seek acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances globally. Sales and earnings from our overseas operations have increased considerably in recent years. In 2008, approximately 22% and 9% of consolidated net sales were from the EMEA and the Asia-Pacific regions, respectively. Approximately 37% of operating profit in 2008 was earned by our overseas businesses. We also recorded losses of $0.70 per diluted share under the equity method of accounting from investments in affiliate and joint venture businesses, all of which are outside the United States. As we expand internationally, we will be subject to increased risks, which may include the following: · currency exchange or price control laws; · currency translation adjustments; · political and economic instability; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles; and · adverse tax consequences. 14 The above listed events could result in sudden, and potentially prolonged, changes in demand for our products. Also, we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting accounts receivable through a foreign country’s legal system. Availability and Cost of Shipping We rely on shipping bulk cargos of bentonite from the United States and China to customers, as well as our own subsidiaries, and we are sensitive to our ability to recover these shipping costs. In the last few years, bulk cargo shipping rates have been very volatile, and, to a lesser extent, the availability of bulk cargo containers has been suspect. We may need to offset additional shipping costs with price increases to customers in order to secure these cargos and maintain our profitability. Reliance on Petrochemicals We purchase a significant amount of raw materials in the United States which are derived from petrochemical products, the cost of which are subject to significant fluctuations, especially increases, in prices. We also purchase a significant amount of diesel fuel to operate our mining and processing equipment. Our freight sales are also heavily impacted by fuel prices and surcharges. These factors combined represent a large exposure to petrochemical products which may be subject to significant price fluctuations. While we have been successful in attaining price increases in certain markets to offset some of these rising costs, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing to achieve these price increases. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 