Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements we make from time to time, including statements in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation section hereafter, constitute “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor contained in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include statements relating to our company or our operations that are preceded by terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends” and similar expressions, and statements relating to anticipated growth, acquisitions, levels of capital expenditures, future dividends, expansion into global markets and the development of new products. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from the results, performance or achievements expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including without limitation the following: Competition Our businesses are very competitive. We believe competition is essentially a matter of product quality, price, delivery, service and technical support. Several of our competitors in the world market are larger and have substantially greater financial resources. If we fail to compete successfully based on these or other factors, we may lose customers or fail to recruit new customers and our business and future financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Reliance on Key Industries Approximately 43% of our minerals segment’s sales in 2007 were to the metalcasting market. Our environmental segment’s sales are predominantly derived from the construction and infrastructure markets. All these markets depend heavily upon the strength of the domestic and international economies. If these economies weaken, demand for our products sold to these industries may decline and our business or future financial results may be adversely affected. Reliance on the Oil and Gas Activities Revenues from our oilfield services segment grew to more than $100 million for the first time ever and now represent 14% of consolidated revenues and 26% of consolidated operating income. Oil and gas production activities are heavily influenced by the benchmark price of these commodities. In turn, both economic and political events can influence the benchmark price which may ultimately affect the revenue potential of our business. Integration of Acquired Businesses We have acquired several businesses in each of the past two years. Acquisitions may continue to be an element of our growth strategy in the future. If actual integration costs are higher than amounts assumed, the profitability of acquired businesses is lower than amounts assumed, or we are unable to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in an acquisition as anticipated, our future earnings may be lower than anticipated. Regulatory and Legal Matters Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the environmental and to health and safety matters. Substantial penalties may be imposed if we violate certain of these laws and regulations even if the violation was inadvertent or unintentional. If these laws or regulations are changed or interpreted differently in the future, it may become more difficult or expensive for us to comply. In addition, investigations or evaluations of our products by government agencies may require us to adopt additional safety measures or precautions. If our costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future materially increase, our business and future financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be subject to adverse litigation results in addition to increased compliance costs arising from future changes in laws and regulations that may negatively impact our operations and profits. 12 Risks of International Expansion An important part of our business strategy is to expand internationally. We intend to seek acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances globally. Sales and earnings from our overseas operations have increased considerably in recent years. In 2007, approximately 24% and 8% of consolidated net sales were from the EMEA and the Asia-Pacific regions, respectively. Approximately 37% of operating profit in 2007 was earned by our overseas businesses. We also recorded approximately $0.27 per diluted share for earnings, under the equity method of accounting, from investments in affiliate businesses. As we expand internationally, we will be subject to increased risks, which may include the following: · currency exchange or price control laws; · currency translation adjustments; · political and economic instability; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles; and · adverse tax consequences. The above listed events could result in sudden, and potentially prolonged, changes in demand for our products. Also, we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting accounts receivable through a foreign country’s legal system. Ocean Shipping and Logistics Bulk cargo shipping costs have been rising significantly due to greater demand from China. We rely on shipping bulk cargos of bentonite from the United States and China to customers, as well as our own subsidiaries. We may need to offset additional shipping costs with price increases to customers in order to maintain our profitability. Other factors in the United States that will potentially impact us are escalating costs of purchased raw materials derived from petrochemical stocks and increases in rail and long-haul freight rates. While we have been successful in attaining price increases in certain markets to offset some of these rising costs, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing to achieve these price increases. Volatility of Stock Price The stock market has been extremely volatile in recent years. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, factors such as the following may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: · quarterly fluctuations in our financial results; · our introduction of new services or products; · announcements of acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures by us, our customers or our competitors; · changes in analysts’ recommendations regarding our common stock; and · general economic conditions. There can be no assurance that the price of our common stock will increase in the future or be maintained at its recent levels. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 