D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. We will be required to raise additional capital to mine our properties. The Company is currently in the exploration stage of its properties. If the Company determines based on its most recent information that it is feasible to begin operations on its properties, the Company will be required to raise additional capital in order to develop and bring the properties into production. The Company can make no assurance that it will be able to raise sufficient capital to meet such requirements. The commercial quantities of ore cannot be accurately predicted. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors including the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as mineral prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in a mineral deposit being unprofitable. The mining industry is highly speculative and involves substantial risks. The mining industry, from exploration, development and production is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. The combination of such factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. 6 The Company’s properties are all at the exploration stage and have no proven reserves. All of the Company's properties are in the exploration stage only and are without a known body of ore. If the Company does not discover a body of ore in its properties, the Company will search for other properties where it can continue similar work. The Company’s mineral exploration efforts may be unsuccessful. Despite exploration work on its mineral claims, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established on any of the Company’s properties. In addition, the Company is at the exploration stage on all of its properties and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits occur on the Company’s properties. Even in the event commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the exploration properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, including the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as metal prices. Competition for mineral land. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for acquisition, claim staking or leasing in the areas where the Company contemplates expanding its operations and conducting exploration activities. Many participants are engaged in the mining business, including large, established mining companies. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for new mining properties. Uncertainty of exploration and development programs. The Company's profitability is significantly affected by the costs and results of its exploration and development programs. As mines have limited lives based on proven and probable mineral reserves, the Company actively seeks to expand its mineral reserves, primarily through exploration, development and strategic acquisitions. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Among the many uncertainties inherent in any gold and silver exploration and development program are the location of economic ore bodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities. Assuming the discovery of an economic deposit, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years may elapse from the initial phases of drilling until commercial operations are commenced and, during such time, the economic feasibility of production may change. Accordingly, the Company's exploration and development programs may not result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves to expand current mineral reserves. Licenses and permits. The operations of the Company require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. The Company believes that it holds all necessary licenses and permits under applicable laws and regulations and believes that it is presently complying in all material respects with the terms of such licenses and permits. However, such licenses and permits are subject to change in various circumstances. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary licenses and permits as are required to explore and develop its properties, commence construction or operation of mining facilities and properties under exploration or development or to maintain continued operations that economically justify the cost. Litigation. Although the Company is not currently subject to litigation, it may become involved in disputes with other parties in the future which may result in litigation. Any litigation could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management from our business operations. In addition, if the Company is unable to resolve any litigation favorably, it may have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial performance, cash flow and results of operations. 7 Acquisitions. The Company undertakes evaluations of opportunities to acquire additional mining properties. Any resultant acquisitions may be significant in size, may change the scale of the Company's business, and may expose the Company to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. The Company's success in its acquisition activities depends on its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire them on acceptable terms, and integrate their operations successfully. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks, such as a significant decline in the price of gold or silver, the ore body proving to be below expectations, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, the potential disruption of the company's ongoing business, the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company through the successful integration of acquired assets and businesses, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, the impairment of relationships with customers and contractors as a result of any integration of new management personnel and the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired mining properties. In addition, the Company may need additional capital to finance an acquisition. Historically, the Company has raised funds through equity financing and the exercise of options and warrants. However, the market prices for natural resources are highly speculative and volatile. Accordingly, instability in prices may affect interest in resource properties and the development of and production from such properties that may adversely affect the Company's ability to raise capital to acquire and explore resource properties. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. Limited Ability to Raise Capital Without Incurring a Change of Control. The Company entered into a subscription agreement with Robert McEwen on March 2, 2006, which provides, among other things, that, for a period of two years following the closing of the acquisition of the common shares, if at any time subsequent to the closing of the acquisition of such common shares, Mr. McEwen owns not less than 10% of the issued and outstanding common shares of the Company (assuming the exercise of any warrants held by Mr. McEwen), then Mr. McEwen shall have a right of first refusal to participate in any future financings of the Company. This right of first refusal may adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise capital and/or could cause a change in control of the Company. On March 2, 2008, the right of first refusal expired and is no longer of any force or effect. Conflict of interest. Certain directors and officers of the Company are officers and/or directors of, or are associated with, other natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors are required by law, however, to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and to disclose any personal interest which they may have in any material transaction which is proposed to be entered into with the Company and to abstain from voting as a director for the approval of any such transaction. Uncertainty of continuing as a going concern. The continuation of the Company and the recoverability of mineral property costs depends upon its ability to discover economically recoverable mineral reserves, attain profitable operations and generate cash flow from operations and/or to raise equity capital through the sale of its securities. The Company's consolidated financial statements do not include the adjustments that would be necessary if the Company were unable to continue as a going concern. Limited and volatile trading volume. Although the Company's common shares are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange, referred to as the "TSX-V" and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the Berlin-Bremen Stock Exchange, referred to as the "FSE", and quoted in the United States on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, referred to as the "OTCBB", the volume of trading has been limited and volatile in the past and is likely to continue to be so in the future, reducing the liquidity of an investment in the Company's common shares and making it difficult for investors to readily sell their shares in the open market. Without a liquid market for the Company's common shares, investors may be unable to sell their shares at favorable times and prices and may be required to hold their shares in declining markets or to sell them at unfavorable prices. Volatility of share price. In recent years, securities markets in Canada have experienced a high level of price volatility. The market price of many resource companies, particularly those, like the Company, that are considered speculative exploration companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price, resulting in substantial losses to investors who have sold their shares at a low price point. These fluctuations are based only in part on the level of progress of exploration, and can reflect general economic and market trends, world events or investor sentiment, and may sometimes bear no apparent relation to any objective factors or criteria. During the 2008 fiscal year, the Company's common share price fluctuated on the TSX-V between a low of $0.45 and a high of $1.33. (The pricing has be adjusted for the subdivision of the Company’s share capital as mentioned in Note 8b of the Financial Statements) Significant fluctuations in the Company's common share price is likely to continue, and could potentially increase in the future. 8 Difficulty for United States investors to effect service of process against the Company. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Consequently, it will be difficult for United States investors to affect service of process in the United States upon the directors or officers of the Company, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The majority of the Company's directors and officers are residents of Canada. A judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon such civil liabilities would probably be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. We have incurred net losses since our inception and expect losses to continue. We have not been profitable since our inception. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, we had a net loss of $1,319,185 and an accumulated deficit on January 31, 2008 of $29,221,567. As the Company is currently at the exploration stage and has no reserves of precious metals, management expects the Company to continue to suffer net losses for the foreseeable future. There are no assurances that we will discover minerals on a commercially viable basis. The Company’s ability to generate revenues and profits is expected to occur through exploration, development and production of its existing properties as well as through acquisitions of interests in new properties. Substantial expenditures will be incurred in an attempt to establish the economic feasibility of mining operations by identifying mineral deposits and establishing ore reserves through drilling and other techniques, developing metallurgical processes to extract metals from ore, designing facilities and planning mining operations. The economic feasibility of a project depends on numerous factors, including the cost of mining and production facilities required to extract the desired minerals, the total mineral deposits that can be mined using a given facility, the proximity of the mineral deposits to a user of the minerals, and the market price of the minerals at the time of sale. There is no assurance that existing or future exploration programs or acquisitions will result in the identification of deposits that can be mined profitably. The Company's exploration activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Laws and regulations govern the exploration, development, mining, production, importing and exporting of minerals; taxes; labor standards; occupational health; waste disposal; protection of the environment; mine safety; toxic substances; and other matters. In many cases, licenses and permits are required to conduct mining operations. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation thereof could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company. Applicable laws and regulations will require the Company to make certain capital and operating expenditures to initiate new operations. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to stop its exploration activities once it is started until a particular problem is remedied or to undertake other remedial actions. Market price is highly speculative. The market prices of metals are highly speculative and volatile. Instability in metal prices may affect the interest in mining properties and the exploration, development and production of such properties. If gold prices substantially decline, this may adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise capital to explore for existing and new mineral properties. 9 The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The Company competes with other developmental resource companies which have similar operations, and many competitors have operations and financial resources and industry experience greater than those of the Company. The Company may encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in its efforts to acquire mineral properties and hire experienced resource industry professionals. Increased competition in our business could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. Penny stock rules may make it more difficult to trade the Company’s common shares. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price of less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors such as institutions with assets in excess of US$5,000,000 or an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and receive the purchaser’s written agreement of the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and also affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares in the secondary market. The Company is subject to foreign currency fluctuations. The Company operates in more than one country and the Company's functional currency is the Canadian Dollar. The Company's offices are located in Canada, all of its mining exploration properties are located in United States, and the Company’s financial results are reported in Canadian Dollars. The Company's currency fluctuation exposure is primarily to the U.S. Dollar and the Canadian Dollar. The Company reported a foreign exchange gain of $519,722 in fiscal 2008. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor does the Company hedge its foreign currency exposure to manage the Company's foreign currency fluctuation risk. Fluctuations in and among the various currencies in which the Company operates could have a material effect on the Company’s operations and its financial results. 