Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes to the industries and markets that Quaker serves could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. The chemical specialty industry comprises a number of companies of similar size as well as companies larger and smaller than Quaker. It is estimated that Quaker holds a leading global position in the markets for process fluids to produce sheet steel and in portions of the automotive and industrial markets. The industry is highly competitive, and a number of companies with significant financial resources and/or customer relationships compete with us to provide similar products and services. Our competitors may be positioned to offer more favorable pricing and service terms, resulting in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. Historically, competition in the industry has been based primarily on the ability to provide products that meet the needs of the customer and render technical services and laboratory assistance to the customer and, to a lesser extent, on price. Success factors critical to the Company’s business include successfully differentiating the Company’s offering from its competition, operating efficiently and profitably as a globally integrated whole, and increasing market share and customer penetration through internally developed business programs and strategic acquisitions. The business environment in which the Company operates remains challenging. The Company is subject to the same business cycles as those experienced by steel, automobile, aircraft, appliance, and durable goods manufacturers. A major risk is that the Company’s demand is largely derived from the demand for its customers’ products, which subjects the Company to uncertainties related to downturns in our customers’ business and unanticipated customer production shutdowns or curtailments such as those being experienced currently. Customer production within the steel and automotive industries has been slowing globally. This is further impacted by the loss of market share of certain of the Company’s automotive customers in the U.S. and European markets. In addition, consolidation in the steel industry is concentrating sales among certain of the Company’s key customers. The Company has limited ability to adjust its cost level contemporaneously with changes in sales and gross margins. Thus, a significant downturn in sales or gross margins due to weak end-user markets, loss of a significant customer, and/or rising raw material costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. Our business depends on attracting and retaining qualified management personnel. The unanticipated departure of any key member of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Given the relative size of the Company and the breadth of its global operations, there are a limited number of qualified management personnel to assume the responsibilities of management level employees should there be management turnover. In addition, because of the specialized and technical nature of our business, our future performance is dependent on the continued service of, and our ability to attract and retain qualified management, commercial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to continue to attract or retain such personnel. 5 Table of Contents Inability to obtain sufficient price increases or contract concessions to offset increases in the costs of raw material could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. Price increases implemented could result in the loss of sales. Quaker uses over 1,000 raw materials, including mineral oils and derivatives, animal fats and derivatives, vegetable oils and derivatives, ethylene derivatives, solvents, surface active agents, chlorinated paraffinic compounds, and a wide variety of other organic and inorganic compounds. In 2008, three raw material groups (mineral oils and derivatives, animal fats and derivatives, and vegetable oils and derivatives) each accounted for as much as 10% of the total cost of Quaker’s raw material purchases. The price of mineral oil can be affected by the price of crude oil and refining capacity. In addition, many of the raw materials used by Quaker are “commodity” chemicals. Accordingly, Quaker’s earnings can be affected by market changes in raw material prices. Over the past three years, Quaker has experienced significant increases in its raw material costs, particularly crude oil derivatives. For example, the price of crude oil averaged $100 per barrel in 2008 versus $72 in 2007 and $66 in 2006. In addition, refining capacity has also been constrained by various factors, which further contributed to higher raw material costs and negatively impacted margins. Animal fat and vegetable oil prices have been impacted by increased biodiesel consumption. In response, the Company has aggressively pursued price increases to offset the increased raw material costs. Although the Company has been successful in recovering a substantial amount of the raw material cost increases, it has experienced competitive as well as contractual constraints limiting pricing actions. In addition, as a result of the Company’s pricing actions, customers may become more likely to consider competitors’ products, some of which may be available at a lower cost. Significant loss of customers could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. During 2008, our five largest customers (each composed of multiple subsidiaries or divisions with semi-autonomous purchasing authority) together accounted for approximately 28% of our consolidated net sales with the largest customer (Arcelor-Mittal Group) accounting for approximately 10% of consolidated net sales. A significant portion of Quaker’s revenues is derived from sales to customers in the U.S. steel and automotive industries, where a number of bankruptcies occurred during recent years and companies have experienced financial difficulties. As part of the bankruptcy process, the Company’s pre-petition receivables may not be realized, customer manufacturing sites may be closed or contracts voided. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. Steel customers typically have limited manufacturing locations as compared to metalworking customers and generally use higher volumes of products at a single location. The loss or closure of a steel mill or other major customer site of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on Quaker’s business. Failure to comply with any material provisions of our credit facility and other debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. The Company maintains a $125.0 million unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a group of lenders, which can be increased to $175.0 million at the Company’s option if lenders agree to increase their commitments and the Company satisfies certain conditions. The Credit Facility, which matures in 2012, provides the availability of revolving credit borrowings. In general, the borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at either a base rate or LIBOR rate plus a margin based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. The Credit Facility contains limitations on capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions and liens, as well as default provisions customary for facilities of its type. While these covenants and restrictions are not currently 6 Table of Contents considered to be overly restrictive, they could become more difficult to comply with as our business or financial conditions change. In addition, deterioration in the Company’s results of operations or financial position could significantly increase borrowing costs. As discussed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 20, 2009, the Company has also amended its Credit Facility to provide covenant relief related to the 2008 and 2009 restructuring programs and the CEO transition costs. In addition, the amendment temporarily increases the maximum permitted leverage ratio from 3.5 to 4.0 during the period from June 30, 2009 to September 30, 2009, and to 3.75 during the period from December 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010. In February 2009, the Company also amended two Industrial Revenue Bonds totaling $15.0 million to provide for the same changes in terms as the Credit Facility. Quaker is exposed to market rate risk for changes in interest rates, due to the variable interest rates applied to the Company’s borrowings under its Credit Facility. Accordingly, if interest rates rise significantly, the cost of debt to Quaker will increase, perhaps significantly, depending on the extent of Quaker’s borrowings under the Credit Facility. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $71.5 million outstanding under the Credit Facility. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps in order to fix a portion of its variable rate debt and mitigate the risks associated with higher interest rates. The combined notional value of the swaps was $40.0 million at December 31, 2008. Failure to generate taxable income could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. At December 31, 2008, the Company had net U.S. deferred tax assets totaling $15.8 million, excluding deferred tax assets relating to additional minimum pension liabilities. In addition, at that date, the Company had $6.1 million in operating loss carryforwards primarily related to certain of its foreign operations. The Company records valuation allowances when necessary to reduce its deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company considers future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. However, in the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be a non-cash charge to income in the period such determination was made, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial statements. The Company continues to closely monitor this situation as it relates to its net deferred tax assets and the assessment of valuation allowances. Environmental laws and regulations and pending legal proceedings may materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. The Company is a party to proceedings, cases, and requests for information from, and negotiations with, various claimants and Federal and state agencies relating to various matters, including environmental matters. An adverse result in one or more matters could materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. Incorporated herein by reference is the information concerning pending asbestos-related litigation against an inactive subsidiary and amounts accrued associated with certain environmental non-capital remediation costs in Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which appears in Item 8 of this Report. We might not be able to timely develop, manufacture and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products required to maintain or expand our business. We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to continuously develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis, in response to customers’ demands for higher performance process chemicals, coatings and other chemical products. Our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive or obsolete and, as a consequence, we may lose business and/or significant market share. The development and commercialization of new products requires significant expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable. In addition, 7 Table of Contents we may not be able to develop and introduce products incorporating new technologies in a timely manner that will satisfy our customers’ future needs or achieve market acceptance. The scope of our international operations subjects the Company to risks, including risks from changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, and political and economic instability. Since significant revenues and earnings are generated by non-U.S. operations, Quaker’s financial results are affected by currency fluctuations, particularly between the U.S. dollar, the E.U. euro, the Brazilian real, and the Chinese renminbi, and the impact of those currency fluctuations on the underlying economies. During the past three years, sales by non-U.S. subsidiaries accounted for approximately 56% to 59% of the annual consolidated net sales. All of these operations use the local currency as their functional currency. The Company generally does not use financial instruments that expose it to significant risk involving foreign currency transactions; however, the size of non-U.S. activities has a significant impact on reported operating results and attendant net assets. Therefore, as exchange rates vary, Quaker’s results can be materially affected. Incorporated by reference is the foreign exchange risk information contained in Item 7A of this Report and the geographic information in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Additional risks associated with the Company’s international operations include but are not limited to the following: • Changes in economic conditions from country to country, • Changes in a country’s political condition, • Trade protection measures, • Licensing and other legal requirements, • Local tax issues, • Longer payment cycles in certain foreign markets, • Restrictions on the repatriation of our assets, including cash, • Significant foreign and United States taxes on repatriated cash, • The difficulties of staffing and managing dispersed international operations, • Less protective foreign intellectual property laws, and • Legal systems which may be less developed and predictable than those in the United States. Terrorist attacks, or other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or U.S. businesses. Terrorist attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Additional terrorist attacks may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain insurance at historical terms and levels for all of our facilities. Furthermore, additional attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products. The consequences of terrorist attacks or armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 8 Table of Contents 