Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements we make from time to time, including statements in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section hereafter, constitute “forward-looking statements” made in reliance upon the safe harbor contained in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements include statements relating to our Company or our operations that are preceded by terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends” and similar expressions, and statements relating to anticipated growth, acquisitions, levels of capital expenditures, future dividends, expansion into global markets and the development of new products. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof and are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from the results, performance or achievements expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. We undertake no duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. A number of risks will challenge us in meeting our long-term profit and strategic objectives, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve success in implementing any one or more of them. Specifically, the risks outlined below could affect the achievement of our expected results. In addition, political, economic, or credit crises occur from time to time in our geographic markets, and these crises could affect or heighten the risks outlined below, especially with regard to our reliance on key industries, the volatility of our stock price, and increased exchange rate sensitivity. The credit crisis may also affect our ability to obtain capital or finance acquisitions or other activities on terms substantially similar to our current debt facilities should that need arise in the future. Any of these factors or the risks outlined below could affect our business opportunities and results: Reliance on Metalcasting & Construction Markets Approximately 54% of our performance materials segment’s sales in 2012 were to the metalcasting market. Our construction technologies segment’s sales are predominantly derived from the commercial construction and infrastructure markets. All of these markets depend heavily upon the strength of the domestic and international economies. If these economies weaken, demand for our products sold to these markets may decline and our business or future financial results may be adversely affected. Susceptibility to Oil and Natural Gas Markets Revenues from our energy services segment in 2012 represent 26% of consolidated revenues and 29% of consolidated operating income. Oil and natural gas production activities are heavily influenced by the benchmark price of these commodities, which can be influenced by both economic and political events and, in turn, affect our customers’ demand for our products and services. Thus, the benchmark prices of oil and natural gas may ultimately affect the performance of this segment. In addition, oil and natural gas exploration and production activities depend heavily on the location of these natural resources within the earth’s geology and geographic location as well as technologies available to profitably extract them. For example, the recent application of horizontal drilling technologies allow oil and natural gas production companies to extract significantly greater amounts of oil and natural gas in geological deposits located in areas where we currently do not have a significant presence. Thus, the performance of our energy services segment is affected by changes in technologies, locations of customers’ targeted reserves, and competition in various geographic markets. Sensitivity to Energy and Petroleum Related Products We purchase a significant amount of raw materials which are derived from petrochemical products. Our production processes also consume a significant amount of energy, primarily electricity, diesel fuel, natural gas and coal. We use diesel fuel to operate our mining and processing equipment and our freight costs are heavily dependent upon fuel prices and surcharges. 14 On a combined basis, these factors represent a large exposure to petrochemical and energy products which may be subject to significant price fluctuations. While we have been successful in attaining price increases in certain markets to offset some of these rising costs, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in continuing to achieve these price increases or protecting our margins. Availability and Cost of Shipping We rely on shipping bulk cargos of bentonite from the United States and China to customers, as well as our own subsidiaries, and we are sensitive to our ability to recover these shipping costs. In the last few years, bulk cargo shipping rates have been very volatile, and, to a lesser extent, the availability of bulk cargo containers has been suspect. If we can not secure our container requirements or offset additional shipping costs with price increases to customers, our profitability could be impacted. Seasonality of Our Energy Services and Construction Technologies Segments Our energy services and construction technologies segments are affected by seasonal weather patterns. A majority of our energy services revenues are derived from the Gulf of Mexico and surrounding states, which are susceptible to hurricanes that typically occur June 1st through November 30th. In addition, it is affected by customers’ demands for natural gas. Natural gas is affected by weather patterns as colder winters increase the demand for natural gas to heat homes and warmer summers increase the demand for natural gas to fuel generators providing electricity to run air conditioners. Actual or threatened hurricanes or changes in the demand for natural gas can result in volatile demand for services provided by our energy services segment. Our construction technologies segment is affected by weather patterns which determine the feasibility of construction activities. Typically, less construction activity occurs in winter months and thus this segment’s revenues tend to be greatest in the second and third quarters when weather patterns in our geographic markets are more conducive to construction activities. Cyclicality of Our Segments All of our segments are affected by economic cycles. During periods of economic slowdown, our customers often reduce their capital expenditures and defer or cancel pending projects. Such developments occur even amongst customers that are not experiencing financial difficulties. These risks are more predominant in our construction technology and performance materials segments. In our construction technologies segment, the construction and infrastructure markets are heavily dependent upon the strength of domestic and international economies. In our performance materials segment, the metalcasting market is dependent upon the demand for castings for automobile components, farm and construction equipment, oil and gas production equipment, power generation turbine castings, and rail car components. Many of these types of equipment are sensitive to fluctuations in demand during periods of recession or tough economies, which ultimately may affect the demand for our construction technologies and performance materials segments’ products and services. Moreover, in periods of lower economic productivity or recession, oil and natural gas prices tend to decrease, which in turn causes exploration companies to reduce their capital expenditures and production and exploration activities. This has the effect of decreasing the demand and increasing competition for the services that our energy services segment provides. Risks of International Expansion & Operation An important part of our business strategy is to expand internationally by establishing a presence in new markets when possible or through acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic alliances. Sales and earnings from our overseas operations have increased considerably in recent years and comprise a significant portion of our financial results, including our joint ventures. As we expand and operate internationally, we will be subject to a myriad of risks, especially in less developed countries whose economies increase at rates faster than more developed nations. These risks relate to currency exchange rates, political and economic environments, business and trade laws, and regulatory and compliance issues. These risks are beyond our control and can lead to sudden, and potentially prolonged, changes in demand for our products, difficulty in enforcing agreements, losses in the realizability of our assets, or fluctuations in our earnings due to the impact from our joint ventures. 15 Regulatory and Legal Matters Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to EHS matters. Substantial penalties may be imposed if we violate certain of these laws and regulations, even if the violation was inadvertent or unintentional. If these laws or regulations are changed or interpreted differently in the future, it may become more difficult or expensive for us to comply. In addition, investigations or evaluations of our products by government agencies may require us to adopt additional safety measures or precautions. If our costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future materially increase, our business and future financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be subject to adverse litigation results in addition to increased compliance costs arising from future changes in laws and regulations that may negatively impact our operations and profits. Last, certain of our customers are subject to various federal and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental and health and safety matters, especially our energy services customers who are subject to drilling permits, wastewater disposal and other regulations. To the extent that these laws and regulations affecting our customers change, demand for our products and services could also change and thereby affect our financial results. Ability to Complete, Integrate & Finance Acquisitions Our business strategy includes pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses, through either our own wholly-owned subsidiaries or our investments in affiliates and joint ventures. The success of any future acquisitions or investments will be dependent upon our ability to locate attractive businesses at a reasonable price and our ability to successfully integrate them into our existing operations. In addition, we have typically financed our acquisitions and investments with debt available to us under our various credit facilities and our ability to issue new debt. We may or may not be able to secure such debt financing on terms substantially similar to our current facilities. In the future, we may even decide to pay all or a portion of the purchase price of any future acquisition or investment with shares of our common stock. If we use our common stock in this way, the price of our stock may decrease. Ability to Pay Dividends We currently declare and pay regular cash dividends on our common stock. Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our board of directors may decrease or discontinue payment of dividends at any time. Impact of Competition Our businesses have many competitors, some of whom are larger and have more resources than we do. We also face competition for some of our products from alternative products, and some of the competition we face comes from competitors in lower-cost production countries like China and India. Many factors could change the level of competition we face in our markets, which could result in decreased demand for our products and services and negatively affect our financial performance. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2012 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 