ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The announcement and pendency of our proposed Arrangement and intensifying competition from our competitors have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our business. On December 14, 2009, we entered into the Arrangement Agreement which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Arrangement Agreement, Parent, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, will acquire all of the outstanding common shares of International Absorbents for $4.75 per common share in cash, with International Absorbents continuing as the surviving corporation (the “Arrangement”). As a result of the Arrangement, International Absorbents will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. The consummation of the Arrangement is subject to various closing conditions, including obtaining the approval of the Arrangement by our shareholders and the Supreme Court of British Columbia. The announcement and pendency of the Arrangement may be having an adverse effect our business. Revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by customers’ and employee uncertainty and other disruptions as well as intensified competition from our competitors as they attempt to take advantage of the uncertainties. In addition, we have incurred legal and other expenses in connection with the pending Arrangement which has adversely affected profitability. All of these factors are likely to continue to adversely affect our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Under the terms of the Arrangement Agreement, we have agreed to operate our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice, as well as to refrain from taking certain actions in the conduct of our business without Parent’s prior written consent until the consummation of the Arrangement. Actions that may require Parent’s consent include, but are not limited to, new indebtedness, capital expenditures, loans and investments, manufacturing and customer agreements, acquisitions, issuance of securities, and the repurchase of shares of the Company’s common stock. These restrictions could adversely affect our business and have an adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. The failure to complete the proposed Arrangement could adversely affect our business. There is no assurance that the proposed Arrangement or any other transaction will occur. If the proposed Arrangement or a similar transaction is not completed, the share price of our common shares may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common shares reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. In addition, upon termination of the Arrangement Agreement under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay Parent a termination fee of 4% of the aggregate purchase price. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Finally, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Arrangement and from intensifying competition from our competitors, including any adverse changes in our relat ionships with our customers, vendors and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event of a failed transaction. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be adversely affected, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the Arrangement, if the Arrangement is not consummated. We continue to work to build our market presence and are subject to substantial competition that could inhibit our ability to succeed as planned. We are one of many companies that compete in the animal care market. We continue to build and maintain our market presence as we compete with both domestic and foreign companies. Any reputation that we may successfully gain with retailers for quality product does not necessarily translate into name recognition or increased market share with the end consumer. Our products may not be well received by pet owners, or other companies may surpass us in product innovations. Any failure to continue to gain consumer awareness and market share could decrease our revenues and have an adverse effect on our financial results. 8 A decline in consumer spending or an ongoing change in consumer preferences, resulting from the current economic uncertainties or otherwise, could reduce our sales or profitability and harm our business. Our sales depend on consumer spending, which is influenced by factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the availability of discretionary income and credit, weather, consumer confidence and unemployment levels. The global economy is experiencing ongoing uncertainties, which may continue for a significant period of time. As a result, there may be decreased customer traffic at our major customer’s stores, and we may experience declines in sales, pressure to lower prices and/or changes in the types of products sold. Any material decline in the amount of consumer spending could reduce our sales. In addition, our premium products are generally priced higher than our competitors’ products, and in an economic downturn, consumers may elect to purchase lower-priced products. In fact, we believe that as a result of current economic uncertainties, some price-sensitive consumers have made the financial decision to purchase competing products that do not perform as well as CareFRESH® but are less expensive than our products. We believe this trend has resulted in decreased sales and to the extent such trend continues, it could further reduce our sales and/or force us to lower our prices, which could reduce profitability, and, in each case, harm our business. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and animal care needs could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, our market share and our profitability. We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our business. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 26%, 20% and 12% of our net sales in fiscal year 2010, while the same customers accounted for approximately 26%, 23% and 10%, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal year 2009. We are dependent on these customers to maintain our financial condition and to generate forecasted operating results. Any material deterioration in the financial condition of one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any significant customer, losses arising from customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters, or our inability to collect accounts receivable from any major customer could reduce our income from operations and cash flow. These risks are heightened as a result of the ongoing global economic uncertainties. We may be adversely affected by trends in the retail industry. With the ongoing trend towards retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. As a result, our business has already been adversely impacted, and may continue to be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailer customers, such as reduced inventory levels, inventory delisting, limitations on access to shelf space, price demands and other conditions. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires us to shorten our lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the carrying of additional inventories and incr ease our working capital and related financing requirements. We cannot be certain that our product innovations and marketing successes will continue. We believe that our future success will partially depend upon our ability to continue to improve our existing products through product innovation and to develop, market and produce new products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the introduction, marketing and production of any new products or product innovations, or develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop new products and introduce them successfully and in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, maintain profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers. We operate in highly competitive industries, which have experienced increased consolidation in recent years. We compete against numerous other companies, some of which are more established in their industries and have substantially greater revenue or resources than we do. Our products compete against national and regional products and private label products produced by various suppliers. To compete effectively, among other things, we must: 9 · maintain our relationships with key retailers and distributors; · develop and grow brands that are attractive to consumers and gain market share; · continually develop innovative new products that appeal to consumers; · maintain strict quality standards; and · deliver products on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Competition could cause lower sales volumes, price reductions, reduced profits, losses, or loss of market share. Moreover, as we add new items to our line of products, they will need to compete for limited shelf space at the mass merchandiser and grocery stores with our competitors’ products. Our inability to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in our costs of goods sold, including the costs of raw materials, transportation costs or labor expenses, or inefficiencies at our production facilities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business places heavy reliance on raw materials being readily available. Although we believe that there are a number of pulp and paper mills in British Columbia, Canada, the State of Washington, the State of Georgia, and the State of Florida that can provide us with the raw materials necessary to conduct our business, any significant decreases in supplies, or any increase in costs or a greater increase in delivery costs for these materials, could result in a decrease in our margins, which would harm our financial condition. Although we believe we will be able to obtain the required material in the region, any significant shortfall of material would result in a significant increase in the cost of producing our primary products. Historically, we have experienced exceedingly high transportation expenses. When these costs are high they have an adverse effect on our financial results. Moreover, we face a risk of increased labor costs, including significant increases in worker's compensation insurance premiums and health care benefits, which could further negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, during fiscal year 2010, our production facility in Jesup, Georgia continued to experience operational inconsistencies, and both of our production facilities faced challenges that directly affected their production costs. These challenges included increased energy costs, materials cost, ongoing maintenance costs associated with achieving a high rate of product quality and production efficiencies, and high freight cost during the last half of the year. To the extent that these inconsistencies and/or challenges continue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Rising energy prices could adversely affect our operating results. In the last few years, energy prices have periodically risen dramatically, including the cost of natural gas, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for our businesses and raw materials costs for our branded products. Moreover, while we have installed new burners at our facilities to heat our dryers, due to the prevalence of high energy costs throughout the county, there is now a higher demand and a resulting shortage of the materials necessary to fuel these burners. Rising energy prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which would reduce our sales and operating income. Our business is subject to many regulations and noncompliance could be costly. The manufacture, marketing and sale of our products are subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, provincial, and state agencies, including, without limitation, regulations governing emissions into the air; discharges into the water; and generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste materials. Environmental regulations may affect us by restricting the manufacturing or use of our products or regulating their disposal. We are also subject to other federal and state laws and regulations regarding health and safety matters. If we do not obtain all material licenses and permits required by government, we may be subject to regulatory action by government authorities. Moreover, if our policies and procedures do not comply in all respects with existing laws and regulations, our activities may violate such laws and regulations. Even if our policies and procedures do comply, but our employees fail or neglect to follow them in all respects, we might incur similar liability. For example, if a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, production may be stopped or a product may be pulled from the shelves, any of which could adversely affect our financial conditions and operations. 10 In addition, any adverse publicity associated with any noncompliance may damage our reputation and our ability to successfully market our products. Furthermore, the rules and regulations are subject to change from time to time and while we closely monitor developments in this area, we have no way of anticipating whether changes in these rules and regulations will be made that would impact our business adversely. Additional or revised regulatory requirements, whether labeling, environmental, health and safety, tax or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have significant indebtedness which impacts our business in several ways, and the nonpayment of which could harm our business. As of January 31, 2010, we had total long-term and current indebtedness under three different bonds of $5,787,000. We make interest payments (and principal payments on the taxable bond) on the indebtedness under these bonds, which are due in 2014, 2019, and 2019. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes in the future; to plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and competition; and to react in a timely manner to the ongoing global economic downturn. In addition, our indebtedness makes us vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations because our bonds due 2019 bear interest at variable rates. ; Any significant interest rate increase could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or if we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will be in default. The indebtedness underlying our bonds is secured by a mortgage on our real property and a security interest in our assets. If we default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the creditors may be able to foreclose on our property and assets, which would substantially harm our business and financial condition. Additionally our letter of credit on our Georgia bond financing expires in September 2011 and there can be no assurance we will be able to renew it. If the letter of credit is not renewed we will be require d to pay off the bonds in full. To the extent that the proposed Arrangement is not consummated, we will continue to incur substantial costs in connection with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”) introduced new requirements regarding corporate governance and financial reporting. Among the many requirements is the requirement under Section 404 of the Act for management to annually assess and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and for our registered public accountant to attest to this report. Based on the requirements in effect as of the date of this Annual Report, to the extent that the Arrangement is not consummated prior to that time, at the end of fiscal year 2011 our auditors will be required to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting for inclusion in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2011. We expect that the costs to comply with these requirements would be significant and would adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls help us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities. We have in the past discovered deficiencies in our internal controls as defined under interim standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board that required remediation. Furthermore, our independent auditor has, in the past, advised us that it had noted certain reportable conditions in our internal financial reporting and accounting control s. As we continue our ongoing review and analysis of internal control over financial reporting for compliance with the Act, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation and implementing improvements. Additionally, we may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future periods that we have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors, our results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and the price of our common stock may decline. 11 If we need to raise additional capital for our operating plan, our business would be harmed if we were unable to do so on acceptable terms, and current volatility and uncertainties in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access credit. We currently anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash flows from operations will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for the foreseeable future. However, our current operating plan may change as a result of many factors, including general economic conditions, which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate and maintain positive operating cash flows and operating income in the future, we may need additional funding. Financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the risk that additional financial institutions may consolidate or become insolvent has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and volatility in credit, currency and equity markets. In such an environment, there is a risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by credit facility, renewing existing credit facilities and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lender fails to honor its legal commitments under our line of credit, or if we are unable to renew our credit facility on fav orable terms or at all, it could be difficult in this environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. If additional capital were needed, our inability to raise capital on favorable terms would harm our business and financial condition. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities convertible into equity, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The indentures governing our bonds and bank debt financing include financial covenants that restrict certain of our activities and impose certain financial tests that we must meet in order to be in compliance with their terms. The terms of the indentures governing our bonds and bank debt financing restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other restricted payments on investments, consummate asset sales or similar transactions, create liens, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. The terms also contain covenants that require us to meet financial tests. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these restrictions and covenants and expect that we will continue to comply. If we were not able to do so, we could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of key senior management personnel could negatively affect our business. We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our future growth may depend on our ability to move into new domestic and international markets, which could reduce our profitability. Our current sales projections indicate that growth in sales may need to come from new products and new markets, including international markets. International small animal care customs, standards, techniques, and methods differ from those in the United States. Laws and regulations applicable in new markets may be unfamiliar to us. Compliance may be substantially more costly than we anticipate. As a result we may need to redesign products, or invent or design new products, to compete effectively and profitably in new markets. We expect that we will need significant time, which may be years, to generate substantial sales or profits in new markets. Other significant challenges to conducting business in foreign countries include, among other factors, local acceptance of our products, political factors, currency controls, changes in import and export regulations, changes in tariff and freight rates, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We might not be able to penetrate these markets and any market penetration that occurs might not be timely or profitable. If we do not penetrate these markets within a reasonable time, we will be unable to recoup part or all of the significant investments we may have made in attempting to do so. 12 The inability to successfully obtain or protect our patents and trade secrets could harm our competitive advantage. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain protection for our products under U.S. patent laws, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have been issued three U.S. patents, of which one remains current and two have expired, and have one pending patent on various degradable particulate absorbent materials and our manufacturing process. Patent applications may not successfully result in an issued patent. Issued patents may be subject to challenges and infringements. Moreover, upon expiration of our current patent other parties may be able to develop products that are currently protected by this patent, which could decrease our sales and reduce our market share. Furthermore, others may independently deve lop similar products or otherwise circumvent our patent protection. Should we fail to obtain and protect our patents, our competitive advantage will be harmed. The products that we manufacture could expose us to product liability claims, and our manufacturing process may pose additional risks. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the manufacture and distribution of certain of our products. Although we generally seek to insure against such risks, there can be no assurance that such coverage is adequate or that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms. A successful product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us and any successful material product liability claim could prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, as part of our manufacturing process, we use complex and heavy machinery and equipment that can pose severe safety hazards, especially if not properly and carefully used. Natural disasters could decrease our manufacturing capacity. Our current manufacturing facilities are located in geographic regions that have experienced major natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, and hurricanes. Our disaster recovery plan may not be adequate or effective. We do not carry earthquake or flood insurance. Other insurance that we carry is limited in the risks covered and the amount of coverage. Our insurance would not be adequate to cover all of our resulting costs, business interruption and lost profits when a major natural disaster occurs. A natural disaster rendering one or more of our manufacturing facilities totally or partially unusable, whether or not covered by insurance, would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The price for our common shares may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common shares, like that of many other small-cap companies, has been highly volatile, experiencing wide fluctuations not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies. Factors such as our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors concerning innovations and new products or systems may have a significant impact on the market price of our securities. In addition, we have experienced limited trading volume in our common shares. It might be difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. In fiscal year 2007, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, and in fiscal year 2010, the shareholders ratified the continued existence of the shareholder rights plan. The shareholder rights plan is designed to protect shareholders from unfair, abusive or coercive take-over strategies, including the acquisition of control of our company by a bidder in a transaction or series of transactions that does not treat all shareholders equally or fairly or provide all shareholders an equal opportunity to share in the premium paid on an acquisition of control. Although the proposed Arrangement is not subject to the terms of the shareholders rights plan, the shareholder rights plan could discourage certain types of take-over bids that might be made for us and may render more difficult a merger, tender offer, assumption of control by the holders of a large block of our securities or the removal of incumbent management, even though certain of such transactions or effects might be beneficial in the judgment of certain shareholders or shareholders generally. For example, the shareholder rights plan could have the effect of preventing a particular take-over bid from being made or being successful, even though a majority of our shareholders might wish to participate in that take-over bid. The shareholder rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us other than through a “permitted bid” (as defined in the plan) or on terms approved by the Board. If triggered, the shareholder rights plan will also likely cause substantial dilution to any shareholder who fails to or elects not to exercise its rights. The existence of these anti-takeover provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shar es. 13 Our financial results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies or as the result of the adoption of new accounting pronouncements. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our financial results. Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. For example, the calculation of share-based compensation expense requires us to use valuation methodologies and a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock, and the exercise behavior of our employees. Furthermore, the re are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn about additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. Factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage; research and development expenses; marketing, general and administrative expenses; and our tax rate. Moreover, the issuance and adoption of new accounting pronouncements may require us to change our accounting policies, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The liquidity of our stock depends in part on our continued listing with the NYSE Amex LLC. In March 2003, we received official notice from the American Stock Exchange (now NYSE Amex LLC) that our common stock had been approved for listing. In order to continue to have our common shares listed, we must remain in compliance with the NYSE Amex LLC listing standards, including standards related to stock price, market capitalization and corporate governance. If we are unable to do so, NYSE Amex LLC could de-list our stock, in which event the liquidity and the value of our shares could be adversely impacted. As a result of our principal executive offices being located in Canada, and a majority of our directors and certain of our officers residing in Canada, investors may find it difficult to enforce, within the United States, any judgments obtained against our company or our directors or officers. Our principal executive offices, a majority of our directors and certain of our officers are located in and/or residents of Canada, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to obtain jurisdiction over us or our directors or officers in courts in the United States in actions predicated on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws; enforce against us or our directors or officers judgments obtained in such actions; obtain judgments against us or our directors or officers in actions in non-U.S. courts predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws; or enforce against us or our directors or officers in non-U.S. courts judgments of courts in the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 