Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Described below are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the integrated circuit and electronics systems industries, and any downturn in these industries may reduce our revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries experienced significant challenges in 2008 and may continue to face challenges in 2009 as a result of a decline in the macroeconomic environment. The IC and electronic systems industries also from time to time experience downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries’ and their customers’ products. As in the past, the current economic downturn is characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The current economic downturn in the industries we serve has contributed to the substantial reduction in our revenue and could continue to harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: • Migration to nanometer design: the size of features such as wires, transistors and contacts on ICs continuously shrink due to the ongoing advances in the semiconductor manufacturing processes. Process feature sizes refer to the width of the transistors and the width and spacing of interconnect on the IC. Feature size is normally identified by the transistor length, which is shrinking rapidly to 32 nanometers and smaller. This is commonly referred to in the semiconductor industry as the migration to nanometer design. It represents a major challenge for participants in the semiconductor industry, from IC design and design automation to design of manufacturing equipment and the manufacturing process itself. Shrinkage of transistor length to such proportions is challenging the industry in the application of more complex physics and chemistry that is needed to realize advanced silicon devices. For EDA tools, models of each component’s electrical properties and behavior become more complex as do requisite analysis, design and verification capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges. • The challenges of nanometer design are leading some customers to work with older, less risky manufacturing processes. This may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows. • The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on the fabrication mask. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC. • With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs. The unavailability of high-quality design IP that can be reliably incorporated into a customer’s design with our IC implementation products and services could reduce demand for our products and services. 14 Table of Contents • Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services. • A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop or acquire new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in this effort. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of significant orders for our software products, fluctuations in customer preferences for license types and the timing of revenue recognition under those license types. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied operating results. In particular, we experienced a net loss during fiscal 2008 and we expect to experience a net loss during fiscal 2009. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of significant orders for our software products because a significant number of licenses for our software products are in excess of $5.0 million. Our operating results are also affected by the mix of license types executed in any given period. We license software using three different license types: subscription, term and perpetual. Product revenue associated with term and perpetual licenses is generally recognized at the beginning of the license period, whereas product revenue associated with subscription licenses is recognized over multiple periods during the term of the license. Revenue may also be deferred under term and perpetual licenses until payments become due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with lower credit ratings. In addition, revenue is impacted by the timing of license renewals, the extent to which contracts contain flexible payment terms, changes in existing contractual arrangements with customers and the mix of license types (i.e., perpetual, term or subscription) for existing customers, which changes could have the effect of accelerating or delaying the recognition of revenue from the timing of recognition under the original contract. Our license mix has changed such that a higher proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition and we expect the change in our license mix, combined with the difficult economic environment, will result in a decrease in our revenue for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. We plan operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. In addition, revenue levels are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to these short-term business changes. The majority of our contracts are executed in the final few weeks of a fiscal quarter. This makes it difficult to determine with accuracy how much business will be executed in each fiscal quarter. Due to the volume or complexity of transactions that we review at the very end of the quarter, or due to operational matters regarding particular agreements, we may not finish processing or ship products under some contracts that have been signed during that fiscal quarter, which means that the associated revenue cannot be recognized in that particular period. You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 15 Table of Contents Our stock price has been subject to fluctuations and has experienced a significant decline, and may continue to be subject to fluctuations and decline. The market price of our common stock has recently experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, such as: • Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; • Changes in our revenue and earnings estimates; • Announcements of a restructuring plan; • Changes in management; • Accounting charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; • A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; • Announcements of new products by us, our competitors or our customers; and • Market conditions in the electronics systems and semiconductor industries. In addition, equity markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of many technology companies have decreased substantially, particularly electronic systems and semiconductor companies. Such price and volume fluctuations may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. We are also currently engaged in several securities class actions and derivative lawsuits. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive and could divert management’s time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or proceeding could also have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Matters relating to or arising from our recent restatement and weaknesses in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements for the periods ended March 29, 2008 and June 28, 2008 and our reassessment of our disclosure controls and procedures under Item 307 of Regulation S-K, management concluded that as of March 29, 2008, June 28, 2008 and September 27, 2008, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Please refer to the discussion under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” for further discussion of the remediation of this material weakness as of January 3, 2009. Should we identify any other material weakness and be unable to remediate any such other material weakness promptly and effectively, such weakness could harm our operating results, result in a material misstatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Any litigation or other proceeding or adverse publicity relating to our remediated material weakness or any future material weakness could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 16 Table of Contents Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses or supplier modifications in response to the economic environment. As a result of challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other regions of the world, our customers, who are concentrated in the semiconductor sector, have experienced and may continue to experience adverse changes in their business and, as a result, may delay or default on their payment obligations, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products, and our suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers’ inability to fulfill payment obligations may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Though we have not yet experienced a material level of defaults, any material payment default by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the escalating challenges in the global capital markets and financial institutions, including a tightening in the capital and credit markets, if we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products, renew maintenance agreements and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. Maintenance is generally renewable annually at a customer’s option, and there are no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. If our customers decide not to renew their maintenance agreements or license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of the maintenance agreements, our revenue could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our customers, which include large semiconductor companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers’ bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our management changes or our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, including key development personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers. On October 15, 2008, we announced the resignations of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Executive Vice President — Worldwide Field Operations, Executive Vice President — Products and Technologies Organization and Executive Vice President — Corporate Affairs. On January 8, 2009, we announced that Lip-Bu Tan was appointed our new President and Chief Executive Officer. As we undergo this transition, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. In addition, our competitors may seek to use this transition and the related potential disruptions to gain a competitive advantage over us. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and the other locations where we maintain facilities. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing 17 Table of Contents these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our gross margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing plans, including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans, and prohibit NASDAQ member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may not be able to effectively implement our restructuring plans, and our restructuring plans may not result in the expected benefits, which would negatively impact our future results of operations. During fiscal 2008, we initiated a restructuring plan in an effort to align our cost structure with expected revenue. This restructuring plan is intended to decrease costs throughout our company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of our restructuring plan, such as improvements in operating margins and cash flows, in the restructuring periods contemplated. The restructuring plan may involve higher costs or a longer timetable than we currently anticipate or it may fail to improve our results of operations as we anticipate. Our inability to realize these benefits may result in an inefficient business structure that could negatively impact our results of operations. We also expect our restructuring plan to cause us to incur substantial costs related to severance and other employee-related costs. Our restructuring plan may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plan may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a negative impact on employee morale and our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. Together with our changes in management, the restructuring plan could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our remaining employees, which in turn may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing EDA technology and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts in order to maintain our competitive position. However, we cannot predict that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments. The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA market and the commercial electronics engineering services industries are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We must also gain industry acceptance for our engineering services and offer better strategic concepts, technical solutions, prices and response time, or a combination of these factors, than those of other design companies and the internal design departments of electronics manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include: • The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, which could result in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decrease revenue; • Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; 18 Table of Contents • The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally-developed) technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the requirements of next-generation design challenges; • The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry; • Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, which may make it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price or at all; and • The combination of or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually. We compete in the EDA products market with Synopsys, Inc., Magma Design Automation, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. Manufacturers of electronic devices may be reluctant to purchase engineering services from independent vendors such as us because they wish to promote their own internal design departments. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The highly competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market segment share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, which can nevertheless result in significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs after we acquire another business, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition: • Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • The substantial diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business; • The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired for which we cannot realize the anticipated value and the exposure to such assumed liabilities; • The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business; • Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering and customer support areas; • Unanticipated costs; • Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, which may dissuade them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and • The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets in which we have limited experience. 19 Table of Contents In a number of our previously completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments, or earnouts, based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business or the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. In connection with our acquisitions completed before January 3, 2009, we may be obligated to pay up to an aggregate of $51.0 million in cash during the next 44 months if certain defined performance goals are achieved in full, which would be expensed as compensation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard, or SFAS, No. 141R, “Business Combinations,” which will change how business acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is not permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that SFAS No. 141R will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We rely on our proprietary technology as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. The rights granted under our patents or attendant to our other intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantages and there is no guarantee that patents will be issued on any of our pending applications and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive and could divert management’s time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that is necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We could lose key technology or suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous patents in the EDA industry and new patents are being issued at a rapid rate. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: • Pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; • Stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; • Obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • Redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. If our security measures are breached and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure and customers may curtail or stop their use of our products and services. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. The long sales cycle of our products and services makes the timing of our revenue difficult to predict and may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The length of the sales cycle may cause our revenue or operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. The complexity and expense associated with our business generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: • The timing of customers’ competitive evaluation processes; or • Customers’ budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for acceleration and emulation hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. 21 Table of Contents The majority of our contracts are executed in the final few weeks of a fiscal quarter. This makes it difficult to determine with accuracy how much business will be executed in each fiscal quarter. Also, because of the timing of large orders and our customers’ buying patterns, we may not learn of bookings shortfalls, revenue shortfalls, earnings shortfalls or other failures to meet market expectations until late in a fiscal quarter. These factors may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly, which can cause significant fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to sell certain installment contracts to generate cash, which may impact our operating cash flows for any particular fiscal period. We sell certain installment contracts to certain financial institutions on a non-recourse or limited-recourse basis to generate cash. Our ability to complete these sales of installment contracts is affected by a number of factors, including the: • Economic conditions in the securities markets; • Credit policies of the financial institutions; and • Credit quality of customers whose installment contracts we wish to sell. Disruptions in the financial markets have and may continue to adversely impact the availability and cost of financing transactions for the installment contract sales that we have already arranged or may arrange. As a result of the credit losses recorded by banks during 2008 and the current financial challenges experienced by banks, a number of banks have become less willing to purchase assets because of capital constraints and concerns about over-exposure to the technology sector. In addition, the change in our license mix will result in an increased number of subscription licenses and a decrease in the sale of receivables to financial institutions, so we expect a reduced level of Proceeds from the sale of receivables throughout fiscal 2009. If we are unable to sell certain installment contracts, our operating cash flows would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in credit quality in the underlying pool of receivables or otherwise, it would have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 58% during fiscal 2008, 54% during fiscal 2007 and 48% during fiscal 2006. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain regions, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had, and may in the future have, a harmful effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States dollar and the currencies of other countries in which we conduct business could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of United States dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer United States dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in United States dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more United States dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to pay for payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Exposure to foreign currency transaction risk can arise when transactions are conducted in a currency different from the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. A subsidiary’s functional currency is generally the currency in which it primarily conducts its operations, including product pricing, expenses and borrowings. Although we 22 Table of Contents attempt to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in United States dollars. Our international operations may also be subject to other risks, including: • The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions; • Limitations on repatriation of earnings; • Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; • Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; • Recessions in foreign economies; • Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Difficulties in managing foreign operations; • Political and economic instability; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Tariffs and other trade barriers; and • United States and other governments’ licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as computer hacking or the introduction of a virus into our computer systems, could significantly interfere with our business operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: • Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; • An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation, write-offs of acquired in-process technology and impairment of goodwill; • Changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; • Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; • Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition, or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; • Increases to interest expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; • New accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; • A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or • Results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and state and foreign tax authorities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. We have received an examination report from the IRS proposing deficiencies in certain of our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. In July 2006, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002 and issued a Revenue Agents Report, or RAR, in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $324.0 million. In November 2006, the IRS revised the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to be approximately $318.0 million. The IRS is contesting our qualification for deferred recognition of certain proceeds received from restitution and settlement in connection with litigation during the period. The proposed tax deficiency for this item is approximately $152.0 million. The remaining proposed tax deficiency of approximately $166.0 million is primarily related to proposed adjustments to our transfer pricing 23 Table of Contents arrangements with foreign subsidiaries and to our deductions for foreign trade income. The IRS may make similar claims against our transfer pricing arrangements and deductions for foreign trade income in future examinations. We have filed a timely protest with the IRS and are seeking resolution of the issues through the Appeals Office of the IRS, or the Appeals Office. We believe that the proposed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and we are vigorously challenging these proposed adjustments. The RAR is not a final Statutory Notice of Deficiency but the IRS imposes interest on the proposed deficiencies until the matters are resolved. Interest is compounded daily at rates published and adjusted quarterly by the IRS and have been between 4% and 10% since 2001. The IRS is currently examining our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2003 through 2005. Significant judgment is required in applying the principles of FASB Interpretation, or FIN, No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” and SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” The calculation of our provision for income taxes involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and results of tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated. If our estimate of the pre-tax profit and losses, the mix of our profits and losses, our ability to use deferred tax assets, the results of tax audits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our software products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Although we have not had any significant difficulty complying with such regulations so far, any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: • Loss of customers; • Loss of market segment share; 24 Table of Contents • Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • Diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; • Loss of or delay in revenue; • Increased service costs; and • Liability for damages. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, which is a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. We maintain research and development and other facilities in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States, and as a result we may face a higher risk of business interruption from acts of war or terrorism than businesses located only or primarily in the United States. We maintain international research and development and other facilities, some of which are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated given that damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products as compared to other businesses which may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war or terrorism. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. We have a substantial level of debt. As of January 3, 2009, we had $500.2 million of outstanding indebtedness as follows: • $250.0 million related to our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2011, or the 2011 Notes; • $250.0 million related to our 1.500% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2013, or the 2013 Notes and, together with the 2011 Notes, the Convertible Senior Notes; and • $0.2 million related to our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Senior Convertible Notes Due 2023, or the 2023 Notes. The level of our current or future indebtedness, among other things, could: • Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt as described below; • Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; • Reduce funds available for use in our operations; • Make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; 25 Table of Contents • Impose operating or financial covenants on us; • Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; or • Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. While we are not currently a party to any loans that would prohibit us from making payment on our outstanding convertible notes, we are not prevented by the terms of the convertible notes from entering into other loans that could prohibit such payments. If we are prohibited from paying our outstanding indebtedness, we could try to obtain the consent of the lenders under those arrangements to make such payment, or we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain the restrictions. If we do not obtain the necessary consents or refinance the borrowings, we may be unable to satisfy our outstanding indebtedness. Any such failure would constitute an event of default under our indebtedness, which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of any other indebtedness then outstanding. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness as well. We have in the past and may in the future attempt to access the capital or credit markets in order to obtain funding to meet particular liquidity needs. Because of the escalating challenges in the global capital markets and financial institutions, including a tightening in the capital and credit markets, compounded by the increasingly challenging and price-conscious economic environment and our lower levels of business, we may not be able to secure additional funding on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could adversely impact our business and operating results. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, which could potentially hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and will increase the costs of such registration to us. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position, or FSP, Accounting Principles Board Opinion, or APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement),” which will require us to recognize additional non-cash interest expense related to our Convertible Senior Notes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. FSP APB 14-1 is effective for fiscal 2009 and is required to be applied retrospectively for all periods for which our Convertible Senior Notes were outstanding before the date of adoption. FSP APB 14-1 will have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, particularly with respect to interest expense ratios commonly referred to by lenders, and could potentially hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes permit the holders to convert the Convertible Senior Notes into shares of our common stock. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes stipulate a net share settlement, which upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes requires us to pay the principal amount in cash and the conversion premium, if any, in shares of our common stock based on a daily settlement amount, calculated on a proportionate basis for each day of the relevant 20 trading-day observation period. The initial conversion rate for the Convertible Senior Notes is 47.2813 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $21.15 per share of our common stock. The conversion price is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest, except in limited circumstances. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Each $1,000 of principal of the Convertible Senior Notes is initially convertible into 47.2813 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Holders of the Convertible Senior Notes may convert their notes at their option on any day before the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding December 15, 2011 in the case of the 2011 Notes and December 15, 2013 in the case of the 2013 Notes, in each case only if: • The price of our common stock reaches $27.50 during certain periods of time specified in the Convertible Senior Notes; • Specified corporate transactions occur; or • The trading price of the Convertible Senior Notes falls below 98% of the product of (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock and (ii) the conversion rate on that date. On and after November 2, 2011, in the case of the 2011 Notes, and November 1, 2013, in the case of the 2013 Notes, until the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of such Convertible Senior Notes, holders may convert their Convertible Senior Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. As of January 3, 2009, none of the conditions allowing holders of the Convertible Senior Notes to convert had been met. Although the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes is currently $21.15 per share, concurrent with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes, we entered into hedge and separate warrant transactions to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. However, we cannot guarantee that such hedges and warrant instruments will fully mitigate the dilution. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Senior Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. At the option of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes, under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes in cash or shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the Convertible Senior Notes, we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes following a “fundamental change” in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities, prior to maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes. The repurchase price for the Convertible Senior Notes in the event of a fundamental change must be paid solely in cash. This repayment obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that may otherwise be beneficial to investors. Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes, with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with our hedge and warrant transactions, these financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock holders will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. In addition, subject to movement in the price of our common stock, if the hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could be exposed to credit risk related to the other party with respect to the payment we are owed from such other party. If the financial institutions with which we entered into these hedge transactions were to fail or default, our ability to settle on these transactions could be harmed or delayed. 27 Table of Contents Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the Convertible Senior Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our common stock. We have not requested a rating of the Convertible Senior Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the Convertible Senior Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the Convertible Senior Notes and assigns the Convertible Senior Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the Convertible Senior Notes and our common stock could be harmed. Should a decline in the market price of the Convertible Senior Notes result, as compared to the price of our common stock, this may trigger the right of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes to convert the Convertible Senior Notes into cash and shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: • Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 