Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Described below are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We are subject to the cyclical nature of the integrated circuit and electronics systems industries, and any downturn in these industries may reduce our orders and revenue. Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The IC and electronics systems industries experienced significant challenges in 2008 and 2009. The IC and electronic systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries’ and their customers’ products. The economic downturn in 2008 and 2009 was characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and significant decreases in average selling prices. This economic downturn in the industries we serve contributed to the reduction in our revenue in 2008 and 2009, as compared to our revenue in 2007. Although the semiconductor industry experienced growth in 2010, and is expected to grow modestly in 2011, we believe that spending on EDA products and services may grow more slowly than the semiconductor industry as a whole in 2011. We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of significant orders for our software products, fluctuations in customer preferences for license types and the timing of revenue recognition under those license types. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, varied operating results. In particular, we incurred net losses during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we recorded net income in 2010, and we may incur a net loss in the future. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of certain orders for our software products. Our operating results are also affected by the mix of license types executed in any given period. We license software using three different license types: subscription, term and perpetual. Product revenue associated with term and perpetual licenses that include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate is recognized upon the later of the effective date of the arrangement or delivery of the software product. Product revenue associated with term licenses that do not include a stated annual maintenance renewal rate and Product revenue associated with subscription licenses is recognized over multiple periods during the term of the license. Revenue may also be deferred until payments become due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with lower credit ratings. In addition, revenue is affected by the timing of license renewals, changes in existing contractual arrangements with customers and the mix of license types (i.e., perpetual, term or subscription) for existing customers. These changes could have the effect of accelerating or delaying the recognition of revenue from the timing of recognition under the original contract. Our license mix has changed such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the license mix, combined with the modest growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to significantly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. We plan operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. In addition, revenue levels are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If the macroeconomic environment weakens, and we experience a shortfall in revenue, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes. 10 Table of Contents The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete. The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards and customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends: • Migration to nanometer design — the continuous shrinkage of the size of process features and other features, such as wires, transistors and contacts on ICs, due to the ongoing advances in the semiconductor manufacturing processes — represents a major challenge for participants in the semiconductor industry, from IC design and design automation to design of manufacturing equipment and the manufacturing process itself. Shrinking transistor sizes are challenging the industry in the application of more complex physics and chemistry in order to produce advanced silicon devices. For EDA tools, models of each component’s electrical properties and behavior become more complex as do requisite analysis, design and verification capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges. • The challenges of nanometer design are leading some customers to work with older, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows. • The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC. • With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The lack of availability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customer’s design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services. • Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services. • A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop or acquire new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in this effort. 11 Table of Contents Our stock price has been subject to significant fluctuations, and may continue to be subject to fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors; • Changes in our orders, revenue or earnings estimates; • Announcements of a restructuring plan; • Changes in management; • A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share; • Material litigation; • Announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers; and • Market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries. In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. We are also currently engaged in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit and shareholder derivative lawsuits. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time-consuming and expensive and could divert management’s time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products, renew maintenance agreements and purchase additional services. Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. In some cases, maintenance is renewable annually at a customer’s option, and there are no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. If our customers decide not to renew their maintenance agreements or license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of the maintenance agreements, our revenue could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers’ bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us. We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations. Our business depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, including key development personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business 12 Table of Contents that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and the other locations where we maintain facilities. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results. In addition, the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans, including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans, and prohibit NASDAQ member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing EDA technology and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot ensure that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments. The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries. The EDA industry and the commercial electronics engineering services industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We must also gain industry acceptance for our engineering services and offer better strategic concepts, technical solutions, prices and response time, or a combination of these factors, than those of our competitors and the internal design departments of electronics manufacturers. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include: • The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue; • Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity; • The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally-developed) technology solutions that are adequate and competitive in meeting the requirements of next-generation design challenges; • The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry; • Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price or at all; and • The combination of two or more of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually. 13 Table of Contents We compete in the EDA products market with Synopsys, Inc., Magma Design Automation, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The highly competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market segment share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions. We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, but may nonetheless incur significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following events occurs when we acquire another business, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition: • Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • The substantial diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business; • The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition; • The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements; • The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business; • Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering and customer support areas; • Unanticipated costs; • Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and • The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience. In a number of our previously completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business or the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified orders, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. 14 Table of Contents The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value. We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. The rights granted under our patents or attendant to our other intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software or other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that is necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We could lose key technology or suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. There are numerous EDA product-related patents. New patents are being issued at a rapid rate and are owned by EDA companies as well as entities and individuals outside the EDA industry. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer’s rights. Intellectual property infringement claims, including defense reimbursement obligations related to third party claims, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: • Pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; • Stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; • Obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or 15 Table of Contents • Redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer. If our security measures are breached and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure and customers may curtail or stop their use of our products and services. Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose existing customers and our ability to obtain new customers. The long sales cycle of our products and services makes the timing of our revenue difficult to predict and may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly. Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our products and services generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities. In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of: • The timing of customers’ competitive evaluation processes; or • Customers’ budgetary constraints and budget cycles. Long sales cycles for acceleration and emulation hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles. United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. During fiscal 2010, the FASB issued exposure drafts of proposed accounting principles related to revenue recognition and leases which could change the way we account for certain of our transactions. A change in these or other principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international operations may seriously harm our financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 59% during fiscal 2010, 57% during fiscal 2009 and 58% during fiscal 2008, a substantial portion of which is denominated in United States dollars. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies, primarily the Japanese yen. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain 16 Table of Contents regions, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of United States dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer United States dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in United States dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the United States dollar, it takes more United States dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to pay for payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Exposure to foreign currency transaction risk can arise when transactions are conducted in a currency different from the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. A subsidiary’s functional currency is generally the currency in which it primarily conducts its operations, including product pricing, expenses and borrowings. Although we attempt to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in United States dollars. Our international operations may also be subject to other risks, including: • The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers; • Limitations on repatriation of earnings; • Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies; • Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; • Recessions in foreign economies; • Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Difficulties in managing foreign operations; • Compliance with United States and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations; • Political and economic instability; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • United States and other governments’ licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as computer hacking or the introduction of a virus into our computer systems, could significantly interfere with our business operations. We have substantial cash requirements in the United States, but a significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, then we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. We have significant operations outside the United States. As of January 1, 2011, approximately one third of our Cash and cash equivalents balance was held in accounts in the United States, with the remainder of the balance held in accounts outside of the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing United States cash balances and future United States operating cash flows are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. However, if these sources of cash are insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to seek other available funding sources which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: • Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including potential United States and international tax reforms; • Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates; • An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation and impairment of goodwill; • Changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets; • Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition, or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period; • Increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes; • New accounting standards or interpretations of such standards; • A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or • Results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS and state and foreign tax authorities. Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods. We have received examination reports from the IRS proposing deficiencies in certain of our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns, and the IRS is currently examining our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2006 through 2008. In July 2006, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2002 and issued a Revenue Agent’s Report, or RAR in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $324.0 million. In November 2006, the IRS revised the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to be approximately $318.0 million. In October 2010, the Appeals Office of the IRS, or the Appeals Office, provided us with copies of the settlement agreements executed by the Appeals Office in August 2010 that resolved the previously disputed 2000 through 2002 tax positions. While we did not receive the final IRS determination of the amount of tax and interest that we owe prior to January 1, 2011, we consider the tax positions to be effectively settled, because the IRS has completed its examination procedures and we believe that there is a remote possibility that the IRS will re-examine the settled tax positions. In May 2009, the IRS completed its field examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax years 2003 through 2005 and issued a RAR, in which the IRS proposed to assess an aggregate deficiency for the three-year period of approximately $94.1 million. In August 2009, the IRS reduced the proposed aggregate tax deficiency for the three-year period to approximately $60.7 million. The IRS is contesting our transfer pricing arrangements with our foreign subsidiaries and deductions for foreign trade income. The IRS made similar claims against our transfer pricing arrangements and deductions for foreign trade income in prior examinations and may make similar claims in its examinations of other tax years. We have filed a timely protest with the IRS and are seeking resolution of the issues through the Appeals Office. We believe that the proposed IRS adjustments for the tax years 2003 through 2005 are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and we are vigorously challenging these proposed adjustments, although there can be no assurance that we will prevail. The RARs are not final Statutory Notices of Deficiency, but the IRS imposes interest on the proposed deficiencies until the matters are resolved. Interest is compounded daily at rates published and adjusted quarterly by the IRS and have been between 4% and 10% since 2001. The calculation of our provision (benefit) for income taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision (benefit) for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or 18 Table of Contents the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, including the examination of the tax years 2000 through 2002 that we consider to be effectively settled, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on the results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates could have a material impact on our results of operations. Forecasts of our income tax position and resultant effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and results of tax audits. To forecast our global tax rate, pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction are estimated and tax expense by jurisdiction is calculated based on such estimates. Forecasts of annual income or loss that are near break-even, as we expect for fiscal 2011, will cause our estimated annual effective tax rate to be particularly sensitive to any changes to our estimates of tax expense. If our estimate of the pre-tax profit and losses, the mix of our profits and losses, our ability to use deferred tax assets, the results of tax audits, or effective tax rates by jurisdiction is different than those estimates, our actual tax rate could be materially different than forecasted, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. We depend on a sole supplier for certain hardware components, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuation. We are dependent on a sole supplier for certain hardware components. Our reliance on a sole supplier could result in product delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and limit our ability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. While it is our goal to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses or supplier modifications. As a result of the challenging economic environment in fiscal 2008 and 2009, our customers, who are primarily concentrated in the semiconductor sector, experienced adverse changes in their business, and certain customers delayed or defaulted on their payment obligations to us. If our customers experience difficulties in the future, they may delay or default on their payment obligations to us, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products, and our suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. If our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers’ inability to fulfill payment obligations may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the relatively high levels of volatility that continue to drive significant fluctuations in asset prices, as well as escalating concern regarding high levels of leverage in sovereign and corporate debt, the capital and credit markets are volatile and increasingly unpredictable in this environment. If we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us or at all, which, may have a material negative effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to effectively implement our restructuring plans, and our restructuring plans may not result in the benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. During fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, we initiated restructuring plans in an effort to decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. We may not be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of our restructuring plans, such as improvements in operating margins and cash flows, in the restructuring periods contemplated. The restructuring plans have involved and may continue to involve higher costs or a longer timetable than we currently anticipate or may fail to improve our operating results as we anticipate. Our inability to realize these benefits may result in an inefficient business structure that could negatively affect our results of operations. Our restructuring plans have caused us and will cause us to incur substantial costs related to severance and other employee-related costs. Our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale or our ability to attract highly skilled employees, and our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our employees, and, in turn, this may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States. We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our software products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation. Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in: • Loss of customers; • Loss of market segment share; • Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; • Diversion of development resources to resolve the problem; • Loss of or delay in revenue; • Increased service costs; and • Liability for damages. If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves. Companies in our industry that lose employees to competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations. 20 Table of Contents Anti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example: • Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met. All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders. Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes. Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We maintain research and development and other facilities in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States, and as a result we may face a higher risk of business interruption from acts of war, political unrest or terrorism than businesses located only or primarily in the United States. We maintain international research and development and other facilities, some of which are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated given that damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products as compared to other businesses which may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. We have a substantial level of debt. As of January 1, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness with a principal balance of $644.7 million as follows: • $350.0 million related to our 2.625% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2015, or the 2015 Notes; • $150.0 million related to our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2011, or the 2011 Notes; • $144.5 million related to our 1.500% Convertible Senior Notes Due December 2013, or the 2013 Notes and, together with the 2011 Notes, the Convertible Senior Notes; and • $0.2 million related to our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Senior Convertible Notes Due 2023, or the 2023 Notes. 21 Table of Contents The level of our current or future indebtedness, among other things, could: • Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt as described above; • Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; • Reduce funds available for use in our operations or for developments or acquisitions of new technologies; • Make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • Impose operating or financial covenants on us; • Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; or • Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness as well. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us and potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and will increase the costs of such registration to us. On the first day of fiscal 2009, we retrospectively adopted new accounting principles as required by the “Debt with Conversion and Other Options” subtopic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, and adjusted all periods for which the Convertible Senior Notes were outstanding before the date of adoption. This adoption had an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, particularly with respect to interest expense ratios commonly referred to by lenders, and could potentially hinder our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes into cash prior to the scheduled maturities of the notes may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Holders of our Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes may convert their notes into cash prior to the scheduled maturities of the notes upon the occurrence of certain events. If one or more note holders elect to convert their notes upon the occurrence of any of these certain events, we would be required to settle the converted principal through payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, even if note holders do not elect to convert their notes upon the occurrence of any of these certain events, we would report any of our Convertible Senior Notes or 2015 Notes that are convertible at a balance sheet date as a current liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our net working capital. For an additional description of our Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and the exercise of warrants issued concurrently with the Convertible Senior Notes and 2015 Notes will, in certain circumstances, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes permit the holders to convert the Convertible Senior Notes into shares of our common stock. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes stipulate a net share settlement, which upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes requires us to pay the principal amount in cash and the conversion premium, if any, in shares of our common stock based on a daily settlement amount, calculated on a proportionate basis for each day of the relevant 20 trading-day observation period. The initial conversion rate for the Convertible Senior Notes is 47.2813 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $21.15 per share of our common stock. The conversion price is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest, except in limited circumstances. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing 22 Table of Contents stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Each $1,000 of principal of the Convertible Senior Notes is initially convertible into 47.2813 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events. Holders of the Convertible Senior Notes may convert their notes at their option on any day before the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding December 15, 2011 in the case of the 2011 Notes and December 15, 2013 in the case of the 2013 Notes, in each case only if: • The price of our common stock reaches $27.50 during certain periods of time specified in the Convertible Senior Notes; • Specified corporate transactions occur; or • The trading price of the Convertible Senior Notes falls below 98% of the product of (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock and (ii) the conversion rate on that date. From November 2, 2011, in the case of the 2011 Notes, and November 1, 2013, in the case of the 2013 Notes, and until the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of such Convertible Senior Notes, holders may convert their Convertible Senior Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. As of January 1, 2011, none of the conditions allowing holders of the Convertible Senior Notes to convert had been met. Although the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes is $21.15 per share, we entered into separate hedge and warrant transactions concurrent with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. Additionally, although the 2015 Notes are only convertible into cash, we entered into separate hedge and warrant transactions concurrent with the issuance of the 2015 Notes to reduce the potential cash outlay from the conversion of the 2015 Notes. However, we cannot guarantee that the hedge and warrant instruments issued concurrently with the Convertible Senior Notes will fully mitigate the potential dilution from the Convertible Senior Notes or that the warrants issued concurrently with the 2015 Notes will not result in dilution. The warrants could have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrants, exceeds the strike price of the warrants. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. At the option of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes in cash. Under the terms of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, we may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes following a “fundamental change” in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities, prior to maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes. The repurchase price for the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes in the event of a fundamental change must be paid solely in cash. This repayment obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that may otherwise be beneficial to investors. Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes may affect the value of our common stock. We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, with the objective of reducing the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and the potential cash outlay from the cash conversion of the 2015 Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with our hedge and warrant transactions associated with the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes, these financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market transactions and entered into various 23 Table of Contents over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock that Convertible Senior Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and the amount of cash that 2015 Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. In addition, subject to movement in the price of our common stock, if the hedge transactions settle in our favor, we could be exposed to credit risk related to the other party with respect to the payment we are owed from such other party. If the financial institutions with which we entered into these hedge transactions were to fail or default, our ability to settle on these transactions could be harmed or delayed. We are subject to the risk that the hedge participants cannot, or do not, fulfill their obligations under the Convertible Senior Notes hedge transactions and the 2015 Notes hedge transactions. Global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If any of the participants in the hedge transactions is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations for any reason, we would not be able to receive the benefit of such transaction. We cannot provide any assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the participants in the hedge transactions. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the Convertible Senior Notes and the 2015 Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our Convertible Senior Notes, 2015 Notes or our common stock. We have not requested a rating of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes and assigns the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, and our common stock could be harmed. Should a decline in the market price of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes result, as compared to the price of our common stock, this may trigger the right of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes or the 2015 Notes to convert such notes into cash and shares of our common stock, as applicable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 