Item 1A. Risk Factors. Changes to the industries and markets that Quaker serves could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The chemical specialty industry comprises a number of companies of similar size as well as companies larger and smaller than Quaker. It is estimated that Quaker holds a leading and significant global position in the markets for process fluids to produce sheet steel and significant global positions in portions of the automotive and industrial markets. The industry is highly competitive, and a number of companies with significant financial resources and/or customer relationships compete with us to provide similar products and services. Our competitors may be positioned to offer more favorable pricing and service terms, resulting in reduced profitability and a loss of market share for us. In addition, several competitors could potentially consolidate their businesses to gain scale to better position their product offerings, which could have a negative impact to our profitability and market share. Historically, competition in the industry has been based primarily on the ability to provide products that meet the needs of the customer and render technical services and laboratory assistance to the customer and, to a lesser extent, on price. Factors critical to the Company’s business include successfully differentiating the Company’s offering from its competition, operating efficiently and profitably as a globally integrated whole, and increasing market share and customer penetration through internally developed business programs and strategic acquisitions. The business environment in which the Company operates remains uncertain. The Company is subject to the same business cycles as those experienced by steel, automobile, aircraft, appliance, and durable goods manufacturers. A major risk is that the Company’s demand is largely derived from the demand for its customers’ products, which subjects the Company to uncertainties related to downturns in our customers’ business and unanticipated customer production shutdowns or curtailments. The Company has limited ability to adjust its cost level contemporaneously with changes in sales and gross margins. Thus, a significant downturn in sales or gross margins due to weak end-user markets, loss of a significant customer, and/or rising raw material costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. Our business depends on attracting and retaining qualified management personnel. The unanticipated departure of any key member of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. Given the relative size of the Company and the breadth of its global operations, there are a limited number of qualified management personnel to assume the responsibilities of management level employees should there be management turnover. In addition, because of the specialized and technical nature of our business, our future performance is dependent on the continued service of, and our ability to attract and retain, qualified management, commercial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may be unable to continue to attract or retain such personnel. In an effort to mitigate such risks, the Company utilizes retention bonuses, offers competitive pay and maintains continued succession planning, but there can be no assurance that these mitigating factors will be adequate to attract or retain qualified management personnel. Inability to obtain sufficient price increases or contract concessions to offset increases in the costs of raw material could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Price increases implemented could result in the loss of sales. Quaker uses over 1,000 raw materials, including mineral oils and derivatives, animal fats and derivatives, vegetable oils and derivatives, ethylene derivatives, solvents, surface active agents, chlorinated paraffinic compounds, and a wide variety of other organic and inorganic compounds. In 2013, three raw material groups (mineral oils and derivatives, animal fats and derivatives, and vegetable oils and derivatives) each accounted for at least 10% of the total cost of Quaker’s raw material purchases. The price of mineral oil can be affected by the price of crude oil and its refining capacity. In addition, many of the raw materials used by Quaker are “commodity” chemicals. Accordingly, Quaker’s earnings can be affected by market changes in raw material prices. In the past, Quaker experienced significant volatility in its raw material costs, particularly crude oil derivatives. In addition, refining capacity can be constrained by various factors, which can further contribute to volatile raw material costs and negatively impact margins. Animal fat and vegetable oil prices also can be impacted by increased biodiesel consumption. Although the Company has been successful in the past in recovering a substantial amount of the raw material cost increases while retaining customers, there can be no assurance that the Company can continue to recover raw material costs or retain customers in the future. As a result of the Company’s past pricing actions, customers may become more likely to consider competitors’ products, some of which may be available at a lower cost. A significant loss of customers could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 4 Availability of raw materials, including sourcing from some single suppliers and some suppliers in volatile economic environments, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The chemical specialty industry can experience some tightness of supply for certain raw materials. In addition, in some cases, we choose to source from a single supplier and/or suppliers in economies that have experienced instability. Any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the Company’s raw materials are subject to various regulatory laws, and a change in the ability to legally use such raw materials may impact Quaker’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Loss of a significant manufacturing facility may materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Quaker has multiple manufacturing facilities throughout the world. In certain countries such as Brazil and China, there is only one such facility. If one of the Company’s facilities was damaged to such extent that production was halted for an extended period, the Company may not be able to timely supply affected customers. This could result in a loss of sales over an extended period or permanently. The Company does take steps to mitigate against this risk, including contingency planning and procuring property and casualty insurance (including business interruption insurance). Nevertheless, the loss of sales in any one region over any extended period of time could have a significant material adverse effect on Quaker’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. A significant portion of Quaker’s revenues is derived from sales to customers in the steel and automotive industries; including some of our larger customers, where a number of bankruptcies have occurred in the past and companies have experienced financial difficulties. As part of the bankruptcy process, the Company’s pre-petition receivables may not be realized, customer manufacturing sites may be closed or contracts voided. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position, and results of operations. Steel customers typically have limited manufacturing locations as compared to metalworking customers and generally use higher volumes of products at a single location. The loss or closure of a steel mill or other major site of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on Quaker’s business. During 2013, our five largest customers (each composed of multiple subsidiaries or divisions with semi-autonomous purchasing authority) together accounted for approximately 18% of our consolidated net sales, with the largest customer (Arcelor-Mittal Group) accounting for approximately 9% of our consolidated net sales. Failure to comply with any material provision of our credit facility or other debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The Company maintains a $300.0 million unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a group of lenders, which can be increased to $400.0 million at the Company’s option if lenders agree to increase their commitments and the Company satisfies certain conditions. The Credit Facility, which matures in 2018, provides the availability of revolving credit borrowings. In general, the borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at either a base rate or LIBOR rate plus a margin based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio. The Credit Facility contains certain limitations on investments, acquisitions and liens, as well as default provisions customary for facilities of its type. While these covenants and restrictions are not currently considered to be overly restrictive, they could become more difficult to comply with as our business or financial conditions change. In addition, deterioration in the Company’s results of operations or financial position could significantly increase borrowing costs. Quaker is exposed to market rate risk for changes in interest rates, due to the variable interest rate applied to the Company’s borrowings under its Credit Facility. Accordingly, if interest rates rise significantly, the cost of debt to Quaker will increase, perhaps significantly, depending on the extent of Quaker’s borrowings under the Credit Facility. At December 31, 2013, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. Environmental laws and regulations and pending legal proceedings may materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The Company is a party to proceedings, cases, and requests for information from, and negotiations with, various claimants and Federal and state agencies relating to various matters, including environmental matters. An adverse result in one or more matters or any potential future matter of a similar nature could materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Incorporated herein by reference is the information concerning pending asbestos-related litigation against an inactive subsidiary and amounts accrued associated with certain environmental non-capital remediation costs in Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which appears in Item 8 of this Report. 5 Compliance with a complex global regulatory environment could have an impact on the Company’s public perception and/or a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Changes in the Company’s regulatory environment, particularly, but not limited to, the United States, Brazil, China and the European Union, could lead to heightened regulatory scrutiny, could adversely impact our ability to continue selling certain products in our domestic or foreign markets and could increase the cost of doing business. For instance, the European Union’s Registration, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH” and analogous non-E.U. laws and regulations), or other similar laws and regulations, could result in fines, ongoing monitoring and other future business activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. In addition, non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the UK Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations, could result in a negative impact to the Company’s reputation, potential fines or ongoing monitoring, which could also have an adverse effect on the Company. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may materially affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The Company is subject to various regulations regarding its emission of greenhouse gases in its manufacturing facilities. In addition, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements could make our products more expensive and reduce demand for our products. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations may also increase our compliance costs. Potential product, service or other related liability claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. The development, manufacture and sale of specialty chemical products and other related services involve inherent exposure to potential product liability claims, service level claims, product recalls and related adverse publicity. Any of these potential product or service risks could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures and affect customer confidence in our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Although the Company maintains product and other general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage would be adequate to cover these potential risks. In addition, the Company may not be able to continue to maintain its existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, in the event a significant product or service claim arises. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit the Company’s ability to compete in its markets. Quaker has a limited number of patents and patent applications, including patents issued, applied for, or acquired in the United States and in various foreign countries, some of which may prove to be material to its business. Principal reliance is placed upon Quaker’s proprietary formulae and the application of its skills and experience to meet customer needs. Quaker’s products are identified by trademarks that are registered throughout its marketing area. Despite our efforts to protect such proprietary information through patent and trademark filings and through the use of appropriate trade secret protections and the inability of certain products to be effectively replicated by others, it is possible that competitors and other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, products, and processes. In addition, the laws and/or judicial systems of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. These potential risks to our proprietary information could subject the Company to increased competition and negative impacts to our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. We might not be able to timely develop, manufacture and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products required to maintain or expand our business. We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to continuously develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis, in response to customers’ demands for higher performance process chemicals, coatings and other chemical products. Our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive or obsolete and, as a consequence, we may lose business and/or significant market share. The development and commercialization of new products require significant expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable. In addition, we may not be able to develop and introduce products incorporating new technologies in a timely manner that will satisfy our customers’ future needs or achieve market acceptance. 6 An inability to appropriately capitalize on Company growth, including prior or future acquisitions, may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Quaker has completed several acquisitions in the past and may continue to seek acquisitions to grow its business. In addition, the Company continues to grow organically through increased end market growth and incremental market share. The success of the Company’s growth depends on its ability to successfully integrate such opportunities, including, but not limited to, the following: • successfully execute the integration or consolidation of the acquired or additional business into existing processes and operations, • develop or modify financial reporting, information systems and other related financial tools to ensure overall financial integrity and adequacy of internal control procedures, • identify and take advantage of potential cost reduction opportunities, while maintaining legacy business and other related attributes, and • further penetrate existing markets with the product capabilities acquired in new acquisitions. The Company may fail to derive significant benefits or may not create the appropriate infrastructure to support such additional business, which could have a material adverse effect on liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Also, if the Company fails to achieve sufficient financial performance from an acquisition, certain long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and goodwill and other intangible assets, could become impaired and result in the recognition of an impairment loss. The scope of our international operations subjects the Company to risks, including risks from changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, and political and economic instability. Since significant revenues and earnings are generated by non-U.S. operations, Quaker’s financial results are affected by currency fluctuations, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the E.U. Euro, the Brazilian Real, the Chinese Renminbi and the Indian Rupee, and the impact of those currency fluctuations on the underlying economies. During the past three years, sales by non-U.S. subsidiaries accounted for approximately 60% to 65% of our annual consolidated net sales. All of these operations use the local currency as their functional currency. The Company generally does not use financial instruments that expose it to significant risk involving foreign currency transactions; however, the size of non-U.S. activities has a significant impact on reported operating results and attendant net assets. Therefore, as exchange rates vary, Quaker’s results can be materially affected. Incorporated by reference is the foreign exchange risk information contained in Item 7A of this Report and the geographic information in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. The Company often sources inventory among its worldwide operations. This practice can give rise to foreign exchange risk resulting from the varying cost of inventory to the receiving location, as well as from the revaluation of intercompany balances. The Company mitigates this risk through local sourcing efforts. Additional risks associated with the Company’s international operations include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in economic conditions from country to country, similar to the past instability in certain European economies, • changes in a country’s political condition, such as the current political unrest in the Middle East, • trade protection measures, • longer payment cycles, • licensing and other legal requirements, • restrictions on the repatriation of our assets, including cash, • the difficulties of staffing and managing dispersed international operations, • less protective foreign intellectual property laws, • legal systems that may be less developed and predictable than those in the United States, and • local tax issues. The breadth of Quaker’s international operations subjects the Company to various local non-income taxes, including value-added-taxes (“VAT”). With VAT, the Company essentially operates as an agent for various jurisdictions by collecting VAT from customers and remitting those amounts to the taxing authorities on the goods it sells. The laws and regulations regarding VAT can be complex and vary widely among countries as well as among individual jurisdictions within a given country for the same products, making full compliance difficult. As VAT is often charged as a percentage of the selling price of the goods sold, the amounts involved can be material. Should there be non-compliance by the Company, it may need to remit funds to the tax authorities prior to collecting the appropriate amounts from the customers or jurisdictions which may have been incorrectly paid. In addition, the Company may choose for commercial reasons not to seek repayment from certain customers. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s 7 liquidity, financial position and results of operations. See Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by this reference, for further discussion. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents or other uncommon global events may affect the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents or other uncommon global events may negatively affect our operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S. or other locations where we do business. Also, other uncommon global events, such as earthquakes, fires and tsunami, cannot be predicted. Terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or armed conflicts, and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Additional terrorist attacks or natural disasters may disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain insurance at historical terms and levels, if at all, for all of our facilities. Furthermore, any of these events may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products. In addition, a failure to effectively prevent, detect and recover from breaches in the Company’s cybersecurity infrastructure could also negatively impact the Company’s results of operation through the loss of Company assets, business disruptions or other misuses of the Company’s information technology. The consequences of terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or armed conflicts, natural disasters, cybersecurity incidents or other uncommon global events can be unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events, such as these, that could have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 