Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business faces many risks. Described below under the headings "Risks Related to Our Business" and "Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness" are what we believe to be the material risks that we face. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer.Risks Related to Our BusinessUncertainty in the global economy in general, and any potential downturn in the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively impact our business and reduce our bookings levels and revenue.Purchases of our products and services are dependent upon the commencement of new design projects by IC manufacturers and electronics systems companies. The IC and electronics systems industries are cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand.For example, the IC and electronics systems industries experienced a significant downturn in 2009. The IC and electronic systems industries have also experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both these industries' and their customers' products. This economic downturn in the industries we serve contributed to the reduction in our revenue in 2009, as compared to prior years. Although the semiconductor industry experienced growth in 2010, semiconductor industry revenues for 2011 remained at levels similar to 2010 and early reports indicate that semiconductor industry revenue during 2012 was slightly lower than 2011. Spending on EDA products and services grew moderately during fiscal 2012. 8Table of ContentsWhile spending on EDA products and services has grown in recent years, the outlook for the semiconductor industry for 2013 is uncertain and may result in a decrease in spending on EDA products and services.While we cannot predict global economic conditions, uncertainty about future economic conditions and future decline in consumer spending could negatively impact our customers' businesses, reducing the number of new chip designs, their overall research and development spending, including their spending on EDA products and services, and as a result decrease demand for our products. Decreased bookings for our products and services, customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers could also adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our future business and financial results are subject to considerable uncertainty that could impact our stock price. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if semiconductor industry revenues do not grow, our future revenues and financial results could be adversely affected. However, if economic conditions improve for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to cautious customer research and development spending and our ratable license mix.Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers' increasing technological requirements could make our products uncompetitive and obsolete.The industries in which we compete experience rapid technology developments, changes in industry standards and customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. Currently, the industries we serve are experiencing the following trends:•Changes in the design and manufacturing of ICs, including migration to advanced process nodes and the introduction of three dimensional transistors, such as fin-based, multigate transistors, or FinFETs, present major challenges to the semiconductor industry, particularly in IC design, design automation, design of manufacturing equipment, and the manufacturing process itself. With migration to advanced process nodes, the industry must adapt to more complex physics and manufacturing challenges such as the need to draw features on silicon that are many times smaller than the wavelength of light used to draw the features via lithography. Models of each component's electrical properties and behavior also become more complex as do requisite analysis, design, verification and manufacturing capabilities. Novel design tools and methodologies must be invented and enhanced quickly to remain competitive in the design of electronics in the smallest nanometer ranges.•The challenges of advanced node design are leading some customers to work with more mature, less risky manufacturing processes that may reduce their need to upgrade or enhance their EDA products and design flows.•The ability to design SoCs increases the complexity of managing a design that, at the lowest level, is represented by billions of shapes on fabrication masks. In addition, SoCs typically incorporate microprocessors and digital signal processors that are programmed with software, requiring simultaneous design of the IC and the related software embedded on the IC.•With the availability of seemingly endless gate capacity, there is an increase in design reuse, or the combining of off-the-shelf design IP with custom logic to create ICs or SoCs. The unavailability of a broad range of high-quality design IP (including our own) that can be reliably incorporated into a customer's design with our software products and services could lead to reduced demand for our products and services.•Increased technological capability of the Field-Programmable Gate Array, or FPGA, which is a programmable logic chip, creates an alternative to IC implementation for some electronics companies. This could reduce demand for our IC implementation products and services.•A growing number of low-cost engineering services businesses could reduce the need for some IC companies to invest in EDA products.•Adoption of cloud computing technologies with accompanying new business models for an increasing number of software categories, including EDA.If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these trends, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become obsolete. To compete successfully, we must develop, acquire or license new products and improve our existing products and processes on a schedule that keeps pace with technological developments and the requirements for products addressing a broad spectrum of designers and designer expertise in our industries. Our hardware platforms must be enhanced periodically to reduce the likelihood that a competitor surpasses the capabilities we offer. We must also be able to support a range of changing computer software, hardware platforms and customer preferences. A rapid transition to different business models associated with cloud computing technologies could result in reduced revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in keeping pace with all, or any, of the customer trends.9Table of ContentsWarrant transactions associated with our convertible notes will, in certain circumstances, dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders.At the time of issuance of our convertible notes due in 2015, we entered into separate warrant transactions for the purchase of up to approximately 46.4 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $10.78 per share. At the time of issuance of our convertible noes due 2013, we also entered into separate warrant transactions, and warrants are currently outstanding to purchase approximately 6.8 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.50 per share. These warrants will be settled in net shares. Therefore, upon expiration of the warrants we will issue shares of our common stock to the purchasers of the warrants that represent the value by which the price of our common stock exceeds the strike price stipulated within the particular warrant agreement. If our stock price is above the warrants' strike price upon expiration of the warrants, the warrants will dilute the ownership interest to our existing stockholders. The warrants will also dilute our diluted earnings per share in periods when our average closing stock price exceeds the strike price of the particular warrant. Any sales in the public market of common stock issuable upon net settlement at expiration of the warrants could adversely affect then current market prices of our common stock. Additional risk factors related to our indebtedness are described below under "Risks Related to Our Securities and Indebtedness."Our stock price has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to be subject to fluctuations.The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may fluctuate or decline in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:•Announcements of our quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts that fail to meet or are inconsistent with earlier projections or the expectations of our securities analysts or investors;•Changes in our forecasted bookings, revenue or earnings estimates;•Market conditions in the IC, electronics systems and semiconductor industries;•Announcements of a restructuring plan;•Changes in management;•A gain or loss of a significant customer or market segment share;•Material litigation; and•Announcements of new products or acquisitions of new technologies by us, our competitors or our customers.In addition, equity markets in general, and the equities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such price and volume fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.We have experienced varied operating results, and our operating results for any particular fiscal period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware products.We have recorded net losses in the past and may record net losses in the future. Various factors affect our operating results and some of them are not within our control. Our operating results for any period are affected by the timing of revenue recognition, particularly for our hardware products.A substantial portion of the product revenue related to our hardware business is recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to our hardware business is inherently difficult to predict, because sales of our hardware products depend on the commencement of new projects for the design and development of complex ICs and systems by our customers and our customers' willingness to expend capital to deploy our hardware in those projects. Therefore, our hardware sales may be delayed or may decrease if our customers delay or cancel projects because their capital spending is constrained. Moreover, the verification hardware market is highly competitive, and our customers may choose to purchase a competitor's verification hardware product based on cost, performance or other factors. These factors may result in lower hardware revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, our forecasted revenue results are based, in part, on our expectations of hardware to be delivered in a particular quarter. Since revenue related to our hardware business is generally recognized upon delivery, changes in hardware bookings or deliveries relative to expectations will have a more immediate impact on our revenue than do changes in software or services bookings, for which revenue is generally recognized over time.Our software license mix is such that a substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue recognition, and we expect the license mix, combined with the modest growth in spending by our customers in the semiconductor sector, may make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue in future fiscal periods. The timing of our revenue recognition may be deferred until payments 10Table of Contentsbecome due and payable from customers with nonlinear payment terms or as cash is collected from customers with low credit ratings.We plan our operating expenses based on forecasted revenue, expected business needs and other factors. These expenses and the effect of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. Bookings and the related revenue are harder to forecast in a difficult economic environment. If the macroeconomic environment weakens, and we experience a shortfall in bookings, our operating results could differ from our expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response to short-term business changes.The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "Critical Accounting Estimates" under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that may lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.You should not view our historical results of operations as reliable indicators of our future performance. If our revenue, operating results or business outlook for future periods fall short of the levels expected by us, securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our common stock could decline.We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components, making us vulnerable to supply disruption and price fluctuation.We depend on sole suppliers for certain hardware components. Our reliance on sole suppliers could result in product delivery problems and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Though we prefer to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not practical or feasible to do so. We may suffer a disruption in the supply of certain hardware components if we are unable to purchase sufficient components on a timely basis or at all for any reason. Any supply disruption could delay our production process and prevent us from delivering completed hardware products to customers or from supplying new evaluation units to customers, which could have a negative impact on our revenue and operating results.The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our revenue, expenses, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States. Our revenue from international operations as a percentage of total revenue was approximately 57% during fiscal 2012, 57% during fiscal 2011 and 59% during fiscal 2010. We expect that revenue from our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. We also transact business in various foreign currencies. The volatility of foreign currencies in certain countries where we conduct business, most notably the Japanese yen, European Union euro, British pound and Indian rupee have had and may in the future have an effect on our revenue or operating results. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the United States or US dollar and the currencies of other countries where we conduct business could seriously affect our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, when a foreign currency declines in value relative to the US dollar, it takes more of the foreign currency to purchase the same amount of US dollars than before the change. If we price our products and services in the foreign currency, we receive fewer US dollars than we did before the change. If we price our products and services in US dollars, the decrease in value of the local currency results in an increase in the price for our products and services compared to those products of our competitors that are priced in local currency. This could result in our prices being uncompetitive in markets where business is transacted in the local currency. On the other hand, when a foreign currency increases in value relative to the US dollar, it takes more US dollars to purchase the same amount of the foreign currency. As we use the foreign currency to fund payroll costs and other operating expenses in our international operations, this results in an increase in operating expenses. Our attempts to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations may be unsuccessful, and significant exchange rate movements may hurt our results of operations as expressed in US dollars.Litigation could adversely affect our financial condition or operations.We currently are, and in the future may be, involved in various disputes and litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, including customer indemnification, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contracts, distribution arrangements and employee relations matters. For information regarding the litigation matters in which we are currently engaged, please refer to the discussion under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" and Note 15 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We cannot provide any assurances that the final outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceedings that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Litigation can be time consuming and expensive and could divert management's time and attention from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results.11Table of ContentsOur future revenue is dependent in part upon our installed customer base continuing to license or buy additional products and purchase additional services.Our installed customer base has traditionally generated additional new license, service and maintenance revenues. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license or buy additional products or contract for additional services or maintenance. Our customers, many of which are large semiconductor and systems companies, often have significant bargaining power in negotiations with us. Mergers or acquisitions of our customers can reduce the total level of purchases of our software and services, and in some cases, increase customers' bargaining power in negotiations with their suppliers, including us.The competition in our industries is substantial and we may not be able to continue to successfully compete in our industries.The EDA industry and the commercial electronics engineering services industry are highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully in these industries, it could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. To compete in these industries, we must identify and develop or acquire innovative and cost-competitive EDA products, integrate them into platforms and market them in a timely manner. We may not be able to compete successfully in these industries. Factors that could affect our ability to succeed include:•The development by others of competitive EDA products or platforms and engineering services, possibly resulting in a shift of customer preferences away from our products and services and significantly decreased revenue;•Decisions by electronics manufacturers to perform engineering services internally, rather than purchase these services from outside vendors due to budget constraints or excess engineering capacity;•The challenges of developing (or acquiring externally developed) technology solutions, including hardware offerings, that are adequate and competitive in meeting the rapidly evolving requirements of next-generation design challenges;•The significant number of current and potential competitors in the EDA industry and the low cost of entry;•Intense competition to attract acquisition targets, possibly making it more difficult for us to acquire companies or technologies at an acceptable price, or at all;•The combination of two or more of our EDA competitors or collaboration among many EDA companies to deliver more comprehensive offerings than they could individually; and•Aggressive pricing competition by some of our competitors may cause us to lose our competitive position, which could result in lower revenues or profitability and could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our software or hardware systems products.We compete in the EDA market most frequently with Synopsys, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Berkeley Design Automation, Inc. and Zuken Ltd. and many others offering "point solutions"), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. In the area of Design IP, we compete with Synopsys and numerous smaller IP companies. During fiscal 2012, Synopsys acquired Magma Design Automation, Inc., EVE SA and Springsoft, Inc. We expect that Synopsys' integration of these companies into its product offerings will result in increased competitive pressures that could harm our business, results of operations or cash flows. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. Competitive pressures could constrain the prices we can charge for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The highly competitive markets in which we do business can put pressure on us to reduce the prices of our products. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other software or hardware products, we may then need to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete successfully. Any such changes would be likely to reduce our profit margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Any substantial changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause sales and software license revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. If we cannot offset price reductions with a corresponding increase in the number of sales or with lower spending, then the reduced license revenues resulting from lower prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.12Table of ContentsRisks associated with our international operations could seriously harm our financial condition.A significant amount of our revenue is derived from our international operations and we have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including:•The adoption or expansion of government trade restrictions, including tariffs and other trade barriers;•Limitations on repatriation of earnings;•Limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies;•Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;•Performance of national economies; •Longer collection periods for receivables and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;•Difficulties in managing foreign operations;•Political and economic instability;•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;•Inability to continue to offer competitive compensation in certain growing regions; and•United States' and other governments' licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products.Some of our international research and development and other facilities are in parts of the world that are not as politically stable as the United States. Consequently, we may face a greater risk of business interruption as a result of terrorist acts or military conflicts than businesses located domestically. Furthermore, this potential harm is exacerbated because damage to or disruptions at our international research and development facilities could have a more significant adverse effect on our ability to develop new or improve existing products than other businesses that may only have sales offices or other less critical operations abroad. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by acts of war. Furthermore, our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Activities that interfere with our international connectivity, such as cyber hacking, the introduction of a virus into our computer systems or natural disasters near any of our international locations, could significantly interfere with our business operations.In addition, internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the laws and regulations applicable to our worldwide operations.We depend upon our management team and key employees, and our failure to attract, train, motivate and retain management and key employees may make us less competitive in our industries and therefore harm our results of operations.Our business depends upon the continued services, efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Competition for highly skilled executive officers and employees can be intense, particularly in geographic areas recognized as high technology centers such as the Silicon Valley area, where our principal offices are located, and in other locations where we maintain facilities. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring and departure of executive officers, and as a result, we may experience disruption to our business that may harm our operating results and our relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers may be adversely affected. To attract, retain and motivate individuals with the requisite expertise, we may be required to grant large numbers of stock options or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and increase compensation expense, and pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. The high cost of training new employees, not fully utilizing these employees, or losing trained employees to competing employers could also reduce our operating margins and harm our business or operating results.In addition, applicable rules and regulations require stockholder approval for new equity compensation plans and significant amendments to existing equity compensation plans (including increases in shares available for issuance under such plans), and prohibit publicly-traded companies from giving a proxy to vote on equity compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. These rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to grant equity compensation to employees in the future. To the extent that these regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant equity compensation to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could materially and adversely affect our business.13Table of ContentsWe may not receive significant revenue from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all.Developing EDA products and IP and integrating acquired technology into existing platforms is expensive, and these investments often require a long time to generate returns. Our strategy involves significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position. However, we cannot ensure that we will receive significant, if any, revenue from these investments.We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses and may not realize the expected benefits of these acquisitions.We have acquired and expect to acquire other companies and businesses in the future. While we expect to carefully analyze each potential acquisition before committing to the transaction, we may not consummate any particular transaction, but may nonetheless incur significant costs, or if a transaction is consummated, we may not be able to integrate and manage acquired products and businesses effectively or to integrate and retain key personnel from the acquired companies or businesses. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of risks. If any of the following acquisition-related risks occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be seriously harmed:•The failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;•The failure to retain key employees of the acquired business;•Difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit;•The substantial diversion of management's attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating these transactions and integrating an acquired business;•The discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of unanticipated liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired, such that we cannot realize the anticipated value of the acquisition;•Difficulties related to integrating the products of an acquired business in, for example, distribution, engineering, licensing models and customer support areas;•Unanticipated costs;•Customer dissatisfaction with existing license agreements with us, possibly dissuading them from licensing or buying products acquired by us after the effective date of the license; and•The failure to understand and compete effectively in markets where we have limited experience.In a number of our completed acquisitions, we have agreed to make future payments, either in the form of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments based on the performance of the acquired businesses or the employees who joined us with the acquired businesses. We may continue to use contingent purchase price payments in connection with acquisitions in the future. The performance goals pursuant to which these future payments may be made generally relate to achievement by the acquired business, or by the employees who joined us with the acquired business of certain specified bookings, revenue, run rate, product proliferation, product development or employee retention goals during a specified period following completion of the applicable acquisition. Future acquisitions may involve issuances of stock as full or partial payment of the purchase price for the acquired business, grants of incentive stock or options to employees of the acquired businesses (which may be dilutive to existing stockholders), expenditure of substantial cash resources or the incurrence of material amounts of debt. These arrangements may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations.The specific performance goal levels and amounts and timing of employee bonuses or contingent purchase price payments vary with each acquisition. While we expect to derive value from an acquisition in excess of such contingent payment obligations, our strategy may change and we may be required to make certain contingent payments without deriving the anticipated value.We rely on our proprietary technology, as well as software and other intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such intellectual property rights from third parties.Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Despite the precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, third parties have tried in the past, and may try in the future, to challenge, invalidate or circumvent these safeguards. Our patents or other intellectual property rights may not provide us with sufficient competitive advantages. Patents may not be issued on any of our pending applications and our issued patents may not 14Table of Contentsbe sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent as applicable law protects these rights in the United States. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights, or deter or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights.Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new or renew existing licenses for such software and other intellectual property in the future. Our engineering services business holds licenses to certain software and other intellectual property owned by third parties, including that of our competitors. Our failure to obtain software, other intellectual property licenses or other intellectual property rights that are necessary or helpful for our business on favorable terms, or our need to engage in litigation over these licenses or rights, could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition.We could suffer serious harm to our business because of the infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties or because of our infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties.There are numerous EDA, VIP and design IP product-related patents. New patents are being issued at a rapid rate and are owned by EDA companies as well as entities and individuals outside the EDA industry, including parties whose income is primarily derived from infringement-related litigation. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes the patent rights of others. As a result, from time to time, we may be compelled to respond to or prosecute intellectual property infringement claims to protect our rights or defend a customer's rights.Intellectual property infringement claims, including contractual defense reimbursement obligations related to third-party claims against our customers, regardless of merit, could consume valuable management time, result in costly litigation or cause product shipment delays, all of which could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. The risk of infringement and related indemnification claims associated with design IP products that are incorporated into a customer product broadly used by consumers, may be higher than the risk associated with our software products. In settling these claims, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with the third parties claiming infringement. These royalty or licensing agreements, if available, may not have terms favorable to us. Being compelled to enter into a license agreement with unfavorable terms could seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Any potential intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following:•Pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement;•Stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property;•Obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or•Redesign the challenged technology, which could be time consuming and costly, or not be accomplished.If we were compelled to take any of these actions, our business or operating results may suffer.Our operating results and revenue could be adversely affected by customer payment delays, customer bankruptcies and defaults or modifications of licenses.Occasionally, our customers file for bankruptcy or request to modify license terms. If our customers experience adversity in their business, they may delay or default on their payment obligations to us, file for bankruptcy or modify or cancel plans to license our products. For instance, if our customers are not successful in generating sufficient cash or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us, although these obligations are generally not cancelable. Our customers' inability to fulfill payment obligations, in turn, may adversely affect our revenue and cash flow. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate pre-existing contractual commitments. Payment defaults by our customers or significant reductions in existing contractual commitments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because of the relatively high levels of volatility that continue to drive significant fluctuations in asset prices, as well as concern regarding high levels of leverage in sovereign and corporate debt, the capital and credit markets are volatile and unpredictable. If we were to seek funding from the capital or credit markets in response to any material level of customer defaults, we may not be able to secure funding on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which may have a material negative effect on our business.15Table of ContentsIf our security measures are breached and an unauthorized party obtains access to customer data or our proprietary business information, our information systems may be perceived as being unsecure, which could harm our business and reputation.Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of our proprietary information and that of our customers. We have offices throughout the world, including key research and development facilities outside of the United States. Our operations are dependent upon the connectivity of our operations throughout the world. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber attacks or breached due to an employee error or other disruption that could result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information and could significantly interfere with our business operations. Breaches of our security measures could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage information systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cyber storage of information as part of their service or product offerings, despite our attempts to validate the security of such services, our proprietary information may be misappropriated by third parties. In the event of an actual or perceived breach of our security, or the security of one of our vendors, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could suffer damage to our reputation or our business, or lose existing customers and lose our ability to obtain new customers.The long sales cycle of our products and services may cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly.Generally, we have a long sales cycle that can extend up to six months or longer. The complexity and expense associated with our products and services generally require a lengthy customer education, evaluation and approval process. Consequently, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense to develop potential relationships that do not result in agreements or revenue and may prevent us from pursuing other opportunities.In addition, sales of our products and services have been and may in the future be delayed if customers delay approval or commencement of projects because of:•The timing of customers' competitive evaluation processes; or•Customers' budgetary constraints and budget cycles.Long sales cycles for acceleration and emulation hardware products subject us to a number of significant risks over which we have limited control, including insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory, variations in inventory valuation and fluctuations in quarterly operating results.Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, and we may incur significant costs to adjust our accounting systems and processes to comply with significant changes.United States generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. During fiscal 2010, the FASB issued exposure drafts of proposed accounting principles related to revenue recognition and leases which could change the way we account for certain of our transactions. The FASB issued a revised exposure draft of proposed accounting principles related to revenue recognition during fiscal 2011 and has continued to discuss these and other proposed accounting principles during fiscal 2012. A change in these or other principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In addition, the SEC is considering a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results.In addition, we may need to significantly change our accounting systems and processes if we are required to adopt the proposed changes in accounting principles noted above. The cost of these changes may negatively impact our results of operations during the periods of transition.16Table of ContentsWe have substantial cash requirements in the United States, but a significant portion of our cash is held and generated outside of the United States, and if our cash available in the United States and the cash available under our revolving credit facility is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, then we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock.We have significant operations outside the United States. As of December 29, 2012, approximately 50% of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance was held by subsidiaries outside the United States, with the remainder of the balance held by us or our subsidiaries in the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing United States cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances, future United States operating cash flows and cash available under our revolving credit facility, are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. However, if these sources of cash were insufficient to meet our future funding obligations in the United States, we could be required to seek other available funding sources which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock.The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in money market funds and marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.Our investments include various money market funds and marketable debt securities such as corporate debt securities, United States Treasury securities, United States government agency securities, bank certificates of deposit and commercial paper. Weakened financial markets have at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market prices and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee and concerns about the rising United States government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the United States dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or cash flows.Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of changes in our effective tax rates or by material differences between our forecasted annual effective tax rates and actual tax rates.Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following:•Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including potential United States and international tax reforms;•Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the United States federal and state statutory tax rates;•An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation and impairment of goodwill;•Changes in the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets;•Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information that results in a recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken in a prior period;•Increases to interest or penalty expenses classified in the financial statements as income taxes;•New accounting standards or interpretations of such standards;•A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings outside the United States; or•Results of tax examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and state and foreign tax authorities.Any significant change in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate are complex and subject to uncertainty because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of estimating our annual income or loss, the mix of profits and losses earned by us and our subsidiaries in tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as benefits from available deferred tax assets, the impact of various accounting rules and results of tax audits. Forecasts of our annual effective tax rate do not include the anticipation of future tax law changes. If there were a material difference between forecasted and actual tax rates then it could have a material impact on our results of operations.17Table of ContentsThe IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our tax returns, and the outcome of current and future tax examinations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.The IRS and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. The calculation of our provision (benefit) for income taxes requires us to use significant judgment and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations. In determining the adequacy of our provision (benefit) for income taxes, we regularly assess the potential settlement outcomes resulting from income tax examinations. However, the final outcome of tax examinations, including the total amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of these issues, cannot be estimated with certainty. In addition, we cannot be certain that such amount will not be materially different from the amount that is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future examination, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows in the applicable period or periods.Our restructuring plans may not result in the benefits we have anticipated, possibly having a negative effect on our future operating results. In recent fiscal years, we have initiated restructuring plans in an effort to decrease costs by reducing our workforce and by consolidating facilities. The only remaining activities in our restructuring plans relate to facilities vacated as part of these plans. Our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, a negative effect on employee morale or our ability to attract highly skilled employees. Our competitors may also seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our employees, and, in turn, this may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future.Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by rendering us unable to ship products and transfer our technology outside of the United States.We must comply with regulations of the United States and of certain other countries in shipping our software products and transferring our technology outside the United States and to foreign nationals. Any significant future difficulty in complying could harm our business, operating results or financial condition.Errors or defects in our products and services could expose us to liability and harm our reputation.Our customers use our products and services in designing and developing products that involve a high degree of technological complexity, each of which has its own specifications. Because of the complexity of the systems and products with which we work, some of our products and designs can be adequately tested only when put to full use in the marketplace. As a result, our customers or their end users may discover errors or defects in our software or the systems we design, or the products or systems incorporating our design and intellectual property may not operate as expected. Errors or defects could result in:•Loss of customers;•Loss of market share;•Failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance;•Diversion of development resources to resolve the problem;•Loss of or delay in revenue;•Increased service costs; and•Liability for damages.If we become subject to unfair hiring claims, we could be prevented from hiring needed employees, incur liability for damages and incur substantial costs in defending ourselves.Companies in our industry that lose employees to competitors frequently claim that these competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. These claims could prevent us from hiring employees or cause us to incur liability for damages. We could also incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against these claims, regardless of their merits. Defending ourselves from these claims could also divert the attention of our management away from our operations.18Table of ContentsAnti-takeover defenses in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example:•Our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding. However, the rights of holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock.•Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with a person owning 15% or more of its voting stock, or who is affiliated with the corporation and owned 15% or more of its voting stock at any time within three years prior to the proposed business combination, for a period of three years from the date the person became a 15% owner, unless specified conditions are met.All or any one of these factors could limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and could allow our Board of Directors to resist, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if a proposed transaction were favored by a majority of our independent stockholders.Our business is subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters.Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations and certain of our distribution facilities, is located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known to experience seismic activity. If significant seismic activity were to occur, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.Our other offices in the United States and in other countries around the world may be adversely impacted by natural disasters. If a natural disaster occurs at or near any of our offices, our operations may be interrupted, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. If a natural disaster impacts a significant number of our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.Risks Related to Our Securities and IndebtednessOur debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness.We have a substantial level of debt, and we currently have the ability to borrow an additional $250 million under a credit facility. As of December 29, 2012, we had outstanding indebtedness with a principal balance of $494.7 million as follows:•$350.0 million related to our 2.625% cash convertible senior notes due 2015, or our 2015 Notes;•$144.5 million related to our 1.500% convertible senior notes due December 15, 2013, or our 2013 Notes; and•$0.2 million related to our zero coupon zero yield senior convertible notes due 2023, or our 2023 Notes.The level of our current or future indebtedness, among other things, could:•Make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations on our debt as described above;•Make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business;•Reduce funds available for use in our operations or for developments or acquisitions of new technologies;•Make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;•Impose additional operating or financial covenants on us;•Limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; or•Place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources.We have entered into a $250 million five-year senior secured revolving credit facility. As of December 29, 2012, we do not have any borrowings outstanding under the credit facility, but we may draw down on the facility in the future to finance working 19Table of Contentscapital, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions and other business purposes, which would increase our indebtedness. Any outstanding loans drawn under this agreement are payable on or before December 12, 2017. We have the option to increase the maximum borrowings on our credit facility up to an additional $150 million if our lenders approve our request. The credit facility contains customary negative covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens and make certain investments, complete acquisitions, dispose of certain assets and make certain payments, including dividends. In addition, the credit facility contains certain financial covenants that require us to maintain a leverage ratio of not greater than 3 to 1, subject to certain exceptions, and requires that we maintain an interest coverage ratio of at least 3 to 1. These financial covenants could limit our flexibility in conducting our business, and any borrowings outstanding under the credit facility could be accelerated if we fail to comply with these covenants. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness as well. Additionally, in the event of a default, certain assets that secure the borrowings could be seized by our lenders, which could adversely impact our ability to operate.Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration.Conversion of our 2013 Notes and 2015 Notes prior to the scheduled maturities of the notes may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.Holders of our 2013 Notes and 2015 Notes may convert their notes into cash prior to the scheduled maturities if any of the conversion conditions for those notes are met. The 2015 Notes are convertible into cash only and the 2013 Notes are convertible into a combination of cash and shares of our common stock.In order for the 2015 Notes to be convertible into cash in a particular fiscal quarter, a conversion condition must be met during the preceding fiscal quarter. During the three months ended December 29, 2012 our closing stock price exceeded $9.81 for at least 20 of the last 30 trading days prior to December 29, 2012. As a result, the 2015 Notes are convertible into cash from December 30, 2012 through March 30, 2013 and we have classified our 2015 Notes as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 29, 2012. The 2013 Notes are not currently convertible.So long as the 2015 Notes are outstanding, we will assess whether this conversion condition has been met at the end of each fiscal quarter. If a conversion condition is met in any future fiscal quarter, we would classify our 2015 Notes as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of the end of that fiscal quarter.If one or more of the 2013 or 2015 Note holders elect to convert their notes at a time when the conversion conditions have been met, we would be required to settle the converted principal and, in the case of the 2015 Notes, the conversion value, through payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.At the option of the holders of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes in cash.Under the terms of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, we may be required to repurchase the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes following a "fundamental change" in our corporate ownership or structure, such as a change of control in which substantially all of the consideration does not consist of publicly traded securities, prior to maturity of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes. The repurchase price for the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes in the event of a fundamental change must be paid solely in cash. This repayment obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. Payment of the notes prior to their scheduled maturities could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives.Hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the issuance of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes may affect the value of our common stock.We entered into hedge transactions with various financial institutions, at the time of issuance of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, with the objective of limiting the potential dilutive effect of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the 2013 Notes and our exposure to the additional cash payments above the principal amount upon conversion of the 2015 Notes. We also entered into separate warrant transactions with the same financial institutions. In connection with our hedge and warrant transactions associated with the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes, these financial institutions purchased our common stock in secondary market 20Table of Contentstransactions and entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. These entities or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. Any of these transactions and activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and, as a result, the number of shares and the value of the common stock that the 2013 Note holders will receive upon conversion of the 2013 Notes and the amount of cash that 2015 Notes holders will receive upon conversion of the 2015 Notes.We are subject to the risk that the hedge participants fail to fulfill their obligations under the 2013 Notes hedge transactions and the 2015 Notes hedge transactions.If any of the participants in the hedge transactions is unwilling or unable to perform its obligations for any reason, we would not be able to receive the benefit of such transaction. We cannot provide any assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the participants in the hedge transactions. Our 2015 Notes were convertible as of December 29, 2012. The convertible note hedge transactions in connection with the 2015 Notes, or the 2015 Notes Hedges, are intended to reduce our exposure above the $350.0 million principal balance in the event of a cash conversion of the 2015 Notes. If the hedge participants fail to meet their obligations for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rating agencies may provide unsolicited ratings on the 2013 Notes and the 2015 Notes that could reduce the market value or liquidity of our 2013 Notes, 2015 Notes or our common stock.We have not requested a rating of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes from any rating agency and we do not anticipate that the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes will be rated. However, if one or more rating agencies independently elects to rate the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes and assigns the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces such rating in the future, the market price or liquidity of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, and our common stock could be harmed. Should a decline occur in the market price of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as compared to the price of our common stock, this may trigger the right of the holders of the 2013 Notes or the 2015 Notes to convert such notes into cash and shares of our common stock, as applicable.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.