ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices are volatile, and a decline in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, cash flow from operations and future growth depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. The markets for these commodities are very volatile. Even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids; • the price of foreign imports; • worldwide economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in crude oil producing countries, including countries in the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain crude oil price and production controls; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per share basis, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward revisions to our estimated proved reserves. Recent changes in the financial and credit markets may impact economic growth and natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices may continue to be adversely affected by general economic conditions. Based on a number of economic indicators, global economic activity has slowed substantially. At the present time, the rate at which the global economy will slow has become increasingly uncertain. A continued slowing of global economic growth, and, in particular, in the United States, will likely continue to reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids which in turn could likely result in lower prices for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. Natural gas and crude oil prices have dropped dramatically in 2008, from record levels of approximately $13 per Mmbtu and $142 per barrel, respectively, in July 2008 to below $6 per Mmbtu and $42 per barrel, respectively as of December 31, 2008. A reduction in demand for, and the resulting lower prices of, natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids could adversely affect our results of operations. 7 We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, a major portion of which is contingent upon semi-annual redeterminations of a borrowing base that determines the maximum amount that can be borrowed under our senior revolving credit facility. If an event of default occurs under either of our credit facilities, all of our indebtedness may become due and payable, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding debt of $276.7 million under our credit facilities, and we have the ability to borrow up to an additional $73.3 million under our senior revolving credit facility to fund capital expenditures or for general corporate purposes. Our senior revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount. The borrowing base is subject to scheduled semi-annual redeterminations; however, the lenders reserve the right to request one unscheduled redetermination of the borrowing base between each scheduled redetermination, should they believe conditions warrant. We are likely to incur a borrowing base reduction at the next redetermination date. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or, if we notify the bank, we have the option to pay the excess over time or to pledge other natural gas and crude oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences, including the following: • funds available for our operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures will be reduced as a result of the dedication of a portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; • we may be more highly leveraged than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • certain of the borrowings under our debt agreements have floating rates of interest, which causes us to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • our degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions; • our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and • our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements may be reduced. In addition, our revolving credit facility and second lien term loan facility contain a number of significant covenants that place limitations on our activities and operations, including those relating to: • creation of liens; • hedging; • mergers, acquisitions, asset sales or dispositions; • payments of dividends; • incurrence of additional indebtedness; and • certain leases and investments outside of the ordinary course of business. Our credit facilities require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. 8 These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary or desirable corporate activities. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could also result in a default under our credit facilities. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further information regarding future compliance with these covenants. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. See the risk factors titled “Recent market events and conditions, including disruptions in the U.S. and international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of the U.S. and global economic conditions, could, among other things, impede access to capital or increase the cost of capital, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital and other capital requirements” and “Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves.” Recent market events and conditions, including disruptions in the U.S. and international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of the U.S. and global economic conditions, could, among other things, impede access to capital or increase the cost of capital, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital and other capital requirements. Recent market events and conditions, including unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets and the deterioration of economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, capital and financing for our operations. Access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Difficulties in obtaining capital and financing or increased costs for obtaining capital and financing for our operations would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital and other capital requirements. We have incurred net losses in the past and there can be no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. We have incurred net losses in two of the last five fiscal years. We cannot assure you that our current level of operating results will continue or improve. Our activities could require additional debt or equity financing. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly depending upon a number of factors, including industry conditions, prices of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids, rates of production, timing of capital expenditures and drilling success. These variables could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market value of our common stock. We may not be able to successfully integrate the properties and assets we acquire with our existing operations. Integration of the properties and assets we acquire may be a complex, time consuming and costly process. Failure to timely and successfully integrate these assets and properties with our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. The difficulties of integrating these assets and properties present numerous risks, including: • acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; • we may need to (i) recruit additional personnel and we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and (ii) expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our existing operations with those associated with the acquired properties, and failure to do so may lead to disruptions in our ongoing businesses; and • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. 9 We are also exposed to risks that are commonly associated with oil and gas property acquisitions, such as unanticipated liabilities and costs, some of which may be material. As a result, the anticipated benefits of acquiring assets and properties may not be fully realized, if at all. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates could materially reduce the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many estimates, including estimates based upon economic assumptions. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or estimates could materially reduce the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this annual report. See “Item 2. Properties” for information about our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices, drilling and operating expenses, the amount and timing of capital expenditures, taxes and the availability of funds. Actual future production, natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this annual report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices and other factors. You should not assume that the present value referred to in this Annual Report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this annual report is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are based on prices and costs on the date of the estimate, held flat for the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves as of December 31, 2008 was based on a Henry Hub spot market price of $5.71 per Mmbtu for natural gas and a West Texas Intermediate posted price of $41.00 per barrel for crude oil on December 31, 2008. If crude oil prices were $1.00 per Bbl lower than the price used, our PV-10 as of December 31, 2008, would have decreased from $290.95 million to $288.15 million. If natural gas prices were $0.10 per Mcf lower than the price used, our PV-10 as of December 31, 2008, would have decreased from $290.95 million to $285.47 million. Any adjustments to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of crude oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock. Actual future net cash flows will also be affected by increases or decreases in consumption by oil and gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both the production and the incurring of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties affects the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. Approximately 31% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2008 were proved undeveloped reserves, which are by their nature less certain. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data set forth in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to our natural gas, crude oil 10 and natural gas liquids reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be sure that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. The natural gas and crude oil industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations and temporary borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of natural gas and crude oil we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which natural gas and crude oil are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to further develop and exploit our current properties, or for exploratory activity. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may need to seek additional financing. Our credit facilities contain covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders. Our lenders may withhold this consent in their sole discretion. In addition, if our borrowing base is redetermined resulting in a lower borrowing base under our senior revolving credit facility, we may be unable to obtain financing otherwise available under our senior revolving credit facility. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity on terms that are similar to existing debt, and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. Drilling for natural gas and crude oil may not be profitable. Any wells that we drill may be dry wells or wells that are not sufficiently productive to be profitable after drilling. Such wells will have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, our properties may be susceptible to drainage from production by operators on adjacent properties. The interpretation and analysis of 3D seismic data does not allow the interpreter to know if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, 3D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know if hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of 3D seismic and other advanced technologies require greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. 11 Drilling for and producing natural gas and crude oil are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling and operating activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas and crude oil can be unprofitable, not only from dry holes, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations; • pressures; • fires; • blowouts; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • title problems; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • unexpected operational events; • shortages of skilled personnel; • shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; and • adverse weather conditions. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life; damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution; environmental contamination or loss of wells; and regulatory fines or penalties. Insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks. We carry limited environmental insurance; thus, losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not covered in full or in part by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Our past growth has been partially attributable to acquisitions of producing natural gas and crude oil properties with proved reserves. The successful acquisition of properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control. Such assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us, as the buyer, to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their capabilities or deficiencies. We may not inspect every well and, even when an inspection is undertaken, structural and environmental problems may not be observable. When we acquire properties, in most cases, we are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. We generally acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties, and in these situations we cannot assure you that we will identify all areas of existing or potential exposure. In those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, we cannot assure you that the seller will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, the competition to acquire producing natural gas and crude oil properties is intense and many of our larger competitors 12 have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire producing natural gas and crude oil properties that have economically recoverable reserves for acceptable prices. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of suitable technology. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids transportation arrangements may hinder our access to natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell natural gas, crude oil or natural gas liquids may have several adverse affects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. Unless we replace our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to raise capital and the value of our common stock. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing natural gas and crude oil reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The value of our common stock and our ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we are not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by production. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. 13 The potential lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. During periods when the price of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids increases, we have generally encountered an increase in the cost of securing drilling rigs, equipment and supplies. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel may also develop during periods of rising commodity prices. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Competition in the natural gas and crude oil industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids, and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial and personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. Our larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. We depend on our senior management team and other key personnel. Accordingly, the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with all of our executive officers to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these persons will remain with us. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations and future growth. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For instance, we may be unable to obtain all necessary permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or public opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. All such costs may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with authority relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and 14 transportation of, natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operations expose us to potentially substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental, health and safety matters. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our operations and other activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws that cover, among other things, emissions into the air and water, habitat and endangered species protection, the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground injection wells, and wetlands protection. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws or regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and the issuance or orders enjoining or limiting our current or future operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations also increases the cost of our operations and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Under certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint or several liability, we may be required to remediate our contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others, or from consequences of our own actions. In addition, claims for damages to persons, property or natural resources may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health, or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many countries as well as several states of the U.S. have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases”. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning natural gas and crude oil, are greenhouse gases. New environmental regulations may be adopted in the future that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers and our customers. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact our operations and the demand for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids in the future. If we are unable to successfully prevent or address material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or any other control deficiencies, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other reporting requirements may be adversely affected. While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. If we are unable to successfully prevent or address material weakness in our internal control systems, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other reporting requirements may be adversely affected. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business by decreasing our revenues and increasing our costs. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur or escalate, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenue. Natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure or facilities we use for the production, transportation or marketing of our natural gas, crude oil and 15 natural gas liquids are destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or reduce our income. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids, as well as interest rates, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids production and our debt that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. We utilize financial commodity price hedge instruments to minimize exposure to declining prices on our crude oil and natural gas liquids production. As of December 31, 2008, 7,336,500 Mmbtu of natural gas and 343,752 barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids have been hedged for 2009, 5,582,004 Mmbtu of natural gas and 250,248 barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids have been hedged for 2010, and 3,192,000 Mmbtu of natural gas and 123,600 barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids have been hedged for 2011. Our actual future production and our actual outstanding debt may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into hedging transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price and interest rate exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity or by the repayment of borrowing on debt, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. Historically, we have been dependent on a few purchasers since we operate in a single industry; the loss of one or more purchasers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our purchasers are engaged in the natural gas and crude oil business throughout the world. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few purchasers for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our top ten purchasers collectively represented approximately 71%, 73% and 95% of total revenues, respectively. Our three largest purchasers in 2008 accounted for 28%, 8% and 6% of total revenues, respectively. This concentration of purchasers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk, and our purchasers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our significant purchasers fails to pay us or ceases to acquire our production on terms that are favorable to us or at all. One stockholder holds a significant number of our shares and the right to elect a majority of our board of directors, which will limit stockholders’ ability to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Of the approximately 5.8 million shares of our common stock outstanding, OCM GW Holdings LLC (“OCMGW”) holds approximately 2.0 million of those shares directly and has the right to acquire approximately 5.9 million shares of common stock pursuant to conversion of shares of Series G Preferred Stock, including undeclared convertible dividends, and Series H Preferred Stock held by it. At December 31, 2008, OCMGW would hold approximately 68% of our outstanding Common Stock on a fully diluted basis, assuming conversion of all preferred stock and accumulated dividends and the exercise of all vested stock options. The Series G Preferred Stock and the Series H Preferred stock vote together with the common stock on an as-converted basis. In addition, pursuant to the terms of Series G Preferred Stock, the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock, voting as a class, have the right to elect a majority of our board of directors. OCMGW currently owns approximately95% of the Series G Preferred Stock. As a result of this stock ownership and its ability to elect a majority of our directors, OCMGW possesses significant influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and significant corporate transactions. Such ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change of control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 16 The interests of OCMGW may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Messrs. B. James Ford and Adam C. Pierce, who are representatives of OCMGW, serve on our board of directors. OCMGW is in the business of trading securities of, and/or investing in, energy companies. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of OCMGW, on the one hand, and the interests of our other stockholders, on the other hand, arise, these directors may not be disinterested. OCMGW may, from time to time, compete directly or indirectly with us or prevent us from taking advantage of corporate opportunities. OCMGW may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors, or a committee consisting solely of disinterested directors, approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock price may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for it. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • conditions that impact demand for natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids; • future announcements concerning our business; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • actions of competitors; • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • changes in government and environmental regulation; • general market, economic and political conditions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. In addition, in recent years, particularly during 2008 and during the first quarter of 2009, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Our board of directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings for the expansion of our business; therefore, we have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Also, our revolving credit facility, second lien term 17 loan facility and the terms of our preferred stock restrict the payment of dividends. Accordingly, stockholders may have to sell some or all of their common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Delaware law and our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, additional shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of the series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, if any, and any qualification, limitations or restrictions of the shares of such series; • require special meetings of the stockholders to be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or by resolution of a majority of the board of directors; • require business at special meetings to be limited to the stated purpose or purposes of that meeting; • require that stockholder action be taken at a meeting rather than by written consent, unless approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholders follow certain procedures, including advance notice procedures, to bring certain matters before an annual meeting or to nominate a director for election; and • permit directors to fill vacancies in our board of directors. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by our equity sponsor, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. We have “blank check” preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to approximately 10 million shares of preferred stock without further stockholder action in one or more series and to designate the dividend rate, voting rights and other rights preferences and restrictions. The issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse impact on holders of common stock. Preferred stock is senior to common stock. Additionally, preferred stock could be issued with dividend rights senior to the rights of holders of common stock. Finally, preferred stock could be issued as part of a “poison pill,” which could have the effect of deterring offers to acquire our company. The holders of our common stock do not have cumulative voting rights, preemptive rights or rights to convert their common stock to other securities. We are authorized to issue 200.0 million shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share (“Common Stock”). As of December 31, 2008, there are 5.8 million shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding. Since the holders of our Common Stock do not have cumulative voting rights, the holder(s) of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present, in person or by proxy, will be able to elect two of the members of our board of directors. The holders of shares of our Common Stock do not have preemptive rights or rights to convert their Common Stock into other securities. The number of shares of outstanding Common Stock could increase significantly as a result of the exercise of outstanding stock options or conversion of our preferred stock. If all of the Common Stock underlying our granted employee stock options, Series G Preferred Stock and Series H Preferred Stock is issued by us, the number of our outstanding shares of Common Stock would increase to approximately 13.8 million shares. Currently, we are authorized to issue 200.0 million shares of our Common Stock, 5.8 million shares of which are outstanding as of December 31, 2008. It is impossible to say how many shares, if 18 any, we will issue and how many shares, in turn, will be resold. However, it is possible that our stock price could decline significantly as a result of an increased number of shares being offered into the market. Our Common Stock is thinly traded and there is no active trading market for our Common Stock and an active trading market may not develop. The trading volume of our Common Stock has historically been low and reliable market quotations for our Common Stock have not been available, partially due to the fact that we are not listed on an exchange and our Common Stock is only traded over-the-counter. In addition some institutional investors may be prohibited from investing in securities that are not traded on a national exchange. An active trading market for our Common Stock may not develop or, if developed, may not continue, and a holder of any of our securities may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of such securities. The impairment of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry specifically, with members of our bank group. These transactions could expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. We have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of derivative transactions in connection with our hedges. We also maintain insurance policies with insurance companies to protect us against certain risks inherent in our business. In addition, if any lender under our credit facility is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity could be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under our credit facility. 