Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Structure Our general partner and its control person could exercise their influence over us to your detriment. Mr. Icahn, through affiliates, currently owns 100% of API, our general partner, and approximately 86.5% of our outstanding preferred units and approximately 90.0% of our outstanding depositary units, and, as a result, has the ability to influence many aspects of our operations and affairs. API also is the general partner of AREH. The interests of Mr. Icahn, including his interests in entities in which he and we have invested or may invest in the future, may differ from your interests as a unitholder and, as such, he may take actions that may not be in your interest. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Mr. Icahn’s interests might conflict with your interests. In addition, if Mr. Icahn were to sell, or otherwise transfer, some or all of his interests in us to an unrelated party or group, a change of control could be deemed to have occurred under the terms of the indentures governing our notes which would require us to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes. We have engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions with our affiliates. We have invested and may in the future invest in entities in which Mr. Icahn also invests. We also have purchased and may in the future purchase entities or investments from him or his affiliates. Although API has never received fees in connection with our investments, our partnership agreement allows for the payment of these fees. Mr. Icahn may pursue other business opportunities in industries in which we compete and there is no requirement that any additional business opportunities be presented to us. Mr. Icahn has proposed that we acquire his interests in American Railcar and Philip Services. American Railcar is a publicly traded company that is primarily engaged in the business of manufacturing covered hoppers and tank railcars. Philip Services is an industrial services company that provides industrial outsourcing, environmental services and metal services to major industry sectors throughout North America. Two committees, one consisting of two independent directors and the other of three independent directors of our board, have been formed to consider the proposals. The committees are in various stages of reviewing the proposals with counsel and financial advisers. No agreement has been reached as to price or terms. Each acquisition would be subject to, among other things, the negotiation, execution and closing of a definitive agreement and the receipt of a fairness opinion. We continuously identify, evaluate and engage in discussions concerning potential investments and acquisitions, including potential investments in and acquisitions of affiliates of Mr. Icahn. There cannot be any assurance that the current proposals or any other potential transactions that we consider will be completed. Certain of our management are committed to the management of other businesses. Certain of the individuals who conduct the affairs of API, including the chairman of our board of directors, Mr. Icahn, our principal executive officer and vice chairman of the board of directors, Keith A. Meister, and our President, Peter K. Shea, are, and will be, committed to the management of other businesses owned or controlled by Mr. Icahn and his affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus significant amounts of time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise between our interests and the other entities or business activities in which such individuals are involved. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future as we may compete with such affiliates for the same assets, purchasers and sellers of assets or financings. To service our indebtedness and pay distributions with respect to our units, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay distributions with respect to our units and to fund operations will depend on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a 18 Back to Table of Contents certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our current businesses and businesses that we acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are a holding company and will depend on the businesses of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations. We are a holding company. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency obligations, marketable equity and debt securities and other short-term investments, our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Moreover, if we make significant investments in operating businesses, it is likely that we will reduce the liquid assets at AREP and AREH in order to fund those investments and the ongoing operations of our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make distributions with respect to depositary units and preferred units likely will depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. The operating results of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and distributions and intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to us may be restricted by applicable law or covenants contained in debt agreements and other agreements to which these subsidiaries may be subject or enter into in the future. The terms of any borrowings of our subsidiaries or other entities in which we own equity may restrict dividends, distributions or loans to us. For example, the notes issued by our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, ACEP, contain restrictions on dividends and distributions and loans to us, as well as on other transactions with us. ACEP also has a credit agreement which contains financial covenants that have the effect of restricting dividends or distributions. This agreement precludes our receiving payments from the operations of our Gaming properties which account for a significant portion of our revenues and cash flows. We have credit facilities for WPI and our real estate development properties which also restrict dividends, distributions and other transactions with us. To the degree any distributions and transfers are impaired or prohibited, our ability to make payments on our debt will be limited. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our 8.125% senior notes due 2012 and our 7.125% senior notes due 2013 do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. We and AREH may incur additional indebtedness if we comply with certain financial tests contained in the indentures that govern these notes. As of December 31, 2006, based on these tests, we and AREH could have incurred up to approximately $1.6 billion of additional indebtedness. Since that date, we issued $500.0 million principal amount of our 7.125% senior notes due 2013, reducing the amount that we and AREH could incur based upon this test. If we complete the acquisition of Lear and fund the acquisition with borrowings, as we currently contemplate, under the financial tests contained in the indentures, AREP and AREH will not be able to incur additional indebtedness. However, our subsidiaries, other than AREH, are not subject to any of the covenants contained in the indentures with respect to our senior notes, including the covenant restricting debt incurrence. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we, and they, now face could intensify. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under any of our debt instruments, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 19 Back to Table of Contents The market for our securities may be volatile. The market for our equity securities may be subject to disruptions that could cause substantial volatility in their prices. Any such disruptions may adversely affect the value of your securities. We have only recently made cash distributions to our unitholders, and future distributions, if any, can be affected by numerous factors. While we made cash distributions with respect to each of the four quarters of 2006 in the amount of $0.10 per depositary unit, the payment of future distributions will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner quarterly, based on a review of a number of factors, including those described below and other factors that it deems relevant at the time that declaration of a distribution is considered. Our ability to pay distributions will depend on numerous factors, including the availability of adequate cash flow from operations; the proceeds, if any, from divestitures; our capital requirements and other obligations; restrictions contained in our financing arrangements, and our issuances of additional equity and debt securities. The availability of cash flow in the future depends as well upon events and circumstances outside our control, including prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and similar factors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions or as to the timing of any distribution. If distributions are made, there can be no assurance that holders of depositary units may not be required to recognize taxable income in excess of cash distributions made in respect of the period in which a distribution is made. Holders of our depositary units have limited voting rights, rights to participate in our management and control of us. Our general partner manages and operates AREP. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of our outstanding depositary units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Holders of depositary units have no right to elect the general partner on an annual or other continuing basis, and our general partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the outstanding depositary units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt securities. As a result, holders of depositary units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities. Holders of depositary units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets. We conduct our businesses through AREH in several states. Maintenance of limited liability will require compliance with legal requirements of those states. We are the sole limited partner of AREH. Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have not clearly been established in several states. If it were determined that AREH has been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute or the possession or exercise of the right by the partnership, as limited partner of AREH, to remove its general partner, to approve certain amendments to the AREH partnership agreement or to take other action pursuant to the AREH partnership agreement, constituted “control” of AREH’s business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, AREP and/or unitholders, under certain circumstances, might be held personally liable for AREH’s obligations to the same extent as our general partner. Further, under the laws of certain states, AREP might be liable for the amount of distributions made to AREP by AREH. Holders of our depositary units may also have to repay AREP amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to holders of common units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Additionally, under Delaware law an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations, if any, of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him or her at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. 20 Back to Table of Contents We may be subject to the pension liabilities of our affiliates. Mr. Icahn, through certain affiliates, currently owns 100% of API and approximately 90.0% of our outstanding depositary units and 86.5% of our outstanding preferred units. Applicable pension and tax laws make each member of a “controlled group” of entities, generally defined as entities in which there are at least an 80% common ownership interest, jointly and severally liable for certain pension plan obligations of any member of the controlled group. These pension obligations include ongoing contributions to fund the plan, as well as liability for any unfunded liabilities that may exist at the time the plan is terminated. In addition, the failure to pay these pension obligations when due may result in the creation of liens in favor of the pension plan or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, against the assets of each member of the controlled group. As a result of the more than 80% ownership interest in us by Mr. Icahn’s affiliates, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the pension liabilities of all entities in which Mr. Icahn has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 80%. One such entity, ACF Industries LLC, is the sponsor of several pension plans which, as of December 31, 2006, were not underfunded on an ongoing actuarial basis but would be underfunded by approximately $87.2 million if those plans were terminated, as most recently reported by the plans’ actuaries. These liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in promised benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. As members of the controlled group, we would be liable for any failure of ACF to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of the ACF pension plans. In addition, other entities now or in the future within the controlled group that includes us may have pension plan obligations that are, or may become, underfunded and we would be liable for any failure of such entities to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of such plans. The current underfunded status of the ACF pension plans requires ACF to notify the PBGC of certain “reportable events,” such as if we cease to be a member of the ACF controlled group, or if we make certain extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions. The obligation to report could cause us to seek to delay or reconsider the occurrence of such reportable events. Starfire Holding Corporation, which is 100% owned by Mr. Icahn, has undertaken to indemnify us and our subsidiaries from losses resulting from any imposition of certain pension funding or termination liabilities that may be imposed on us and our subsidiaries or our assets as a result of being a member of the Icahn controlled group. The Starfire indemnity (which does not extend to pension liabilities of our subsidiaries that would be imposed on us as a result of our interest in these subsidiaries and not as a result of Mr. Icahn and his affiliates more than 80% ownership interest in us) provides, among other things, that so long as such contingent liabilities exist and could be imposed on us, Starfire will not make any distributions to its stockholders that would reduce its net worth to below $250.0 million. Nonetheless, Starfire may not be able to fund its indemnification obligations to us. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company. Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in companies in which we own less than a 50% interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. In order not to become an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions with an eye toward the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwiseeconomically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, such as our loss of control of WPI, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. See Note 20of notes to consolidated financial statements and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought 21 by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. We may become taxable as a corporation. We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income and deductions to our partners. However, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership for past years as well as future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income, which includes interest, dividends, oil and gas revenues, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. We believe that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to structure our business in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income this year and in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such structuring will be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of more than 10% of non-qualifying income. If less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, we may be subject to corporate tax on our net income, at a Federal rate of up to 35% plus possible state taxes. Further, if less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income for past years, we may be subject to corporate level tax plus interest and possibly penalties. In addition, if we register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it is likely that we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The cost of paying federal and possibly state income tax, either for past years or going forward, could be a significant liability and would reduce our funds available to make distributions to holders of units, and to make interest and principal payments on our debt securities. To meet the qualifying income test we may structure transactions in a manner which is less advantageous than if this were not a consideration, or we avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions. Holders of units may be required to pay tax on their share of our income even if they did not receive cash distributions from us. Because we are treated as a partnership for income tax purposes, holders of units are generally required to pay federal income tax, and, in some cases, state or local income tax, on the portion of our taxable income allocated to them, whether or not such income is distributed. Accordingly, it is possible that holder of units may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income, or even equal to their tax liability on the portion of our income allocated to them. If we discover significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or at any recently acquired entity, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the market price of our depositary units or our ability to remain listed with the New York Stock Exchange. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As of December 31, 2006, we completed remediation of previously reported significant deficiencies in internal controls, as defined under interim standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB; two at the Holding Company and one at a subsidiary. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our or our consolidated subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the New York Stock Exchange. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in 22 Back to Table of Contents our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our depositary units or the rating of our debt. Since we are a limited partnership, you may not be able to pursue legal claims against us in U.S. federal courts. We are a limited partnership organized under the laws of the state of Delaware. Under the rules of federal civil procedure, you may not be able to sue us in federal court on claims other than those based solely on federal law, because of lack of complete diversity. Case law applying diversity jurisdiction deems us to have the citizenship of each of our limited partners. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, it may not be possible for you to attempt to sue us in a federal court because we have citizenship in all 50 U.S. states and operations in many states. Accordingly, you will be limited to bring any claims in state court. Furthermore, AREP Finance, our corporate co-issuer for the notes, has only nominal assets and no operations. While you may be able to sue the corporate co., issuer in a federal court, you are not likely to be able to realize on any judgment rendered against it. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under one of our debt instruments or the indenture governing the notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments, including the notes. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, and to fund operations will depend on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. The businesses or assets we currently operate or may acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt, including the notes. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes, on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Related to our Businesses General In addition to the following risk factors specific to each of our businesses, all of our businesses are subject to the effects of the following: · the continued threat of terrorism; · economic downturn; · loss of any of our or our subsidiaries key personnel; · the unavailability, as needed, of additional financing; and · the unavailability of insurance at acceptable rates. Our acquisition of Lear Corporation will require a significant investment or may not be successfully completed. On February 9, 2007, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, pursuant to which we would acquire Lear, a publicly traded company that provides automotive interior systems worldwide for aggregate consideration of 23 Back to Table of Contents approximately $5.2 billion including the assumption of debt. If we complete the acquisition of Lear, it would require a significant investment by us, including approximately $1.4 billion in cash. Under the financial tests contained in the indentures that govern our notes due 2012 and 2013, AREP and AREH will not be able to incur additional indebtedness as a result of borrowings to finance the Lear acquisition, which may limit our flexibility in entering into future financing arrangements, including those to support our existing businesses or to acquire new businesses. Lear also has significant pension and related liabilities for which we could become liable as a member of a controlled group of entities. Our agreement with Lear permits Lear to solicit proposals from other potential purchasers for 45 days after the signing of the agreement and to respond to offers after that date and until Lear’s stockholders approve the transaction with us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the transaction or that the completion of the transaction will be for the consideration described above. Furthermore, the proposed transaction is subject to additional risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of conditions to closing, which requires Lear stockholder approval and U.S. and foreign antitrust approval. If we were to complete the acquisition, Lear's business and operations would be subject to various risks, including the uncertainty of its financial performance following completion of the proposed transaction; general conditions affecting the automotive industry, particularly in the United States, and general domestic and international market conditions. In addition, we have been named as a co-defendant in actions brought on behalf of Lear stockholders that, among other things, allege that the purchase price is unfair to Lear stockholders and seek to enjoin the transaction. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Gaming The gaming industry is highly regulated. The gaming authorities and state and municipal licensing authorities have significant control over our operations. Our properties currently conduct licensed gaming operations in Nevada. Various regulatory authorities, including the Nevada State Gaming Control Board and the Nevada Gaining Commission, require our properties to hold various licenses and registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals to engage in gaming operations and to meet requirements of suitability. These gaming authorities also control approval of ownership interests in gaming operations. These gaming authorities may deny, limit, condition, suspend or revoke our gaming licenses, registrations, findings of suitability or the approval of any of our ownership interests in any of or licensed gaming operations any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, for any cause they may deem reasonable. If we violate gaming laws or regulations that are applicable to us, we may have to pay substantial fines or forfeit assets. If, in the future, we operate or have an ownership interest in casino gaming facilities located outside of Nevada, we may also be subject to the gaming laws and regulations of those other jurisdictions. The sale of alcoholic beverages at our Gaming properties is subject to licensing and regulation by local authorities. Any limitation, condition, suspension or revocation of any such license, and any disciplinary action may, and revocation would, reduce the number of visitors to our casinos to the extent the availability of alcoholic beverages is important to them. Any reduction in our number of visitors will reduce our revenue and cash flow. Rising operating costs for our gaming properties could have a negative impact on our profitability. The operating expenses associated with our gaming properties could increase due to some of the following factors: · our properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may reduce our profitability; · our properties use significant amounts of water and a water shortage may adversely affect our operations; · some of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and we may incur higher costs or work slow-downs or stoppages due to union activities; and · our reliance on slot machine revenues and the concentration of manufacturing of slot machines in certain companies could impose additional costs on us. 24 Back to Table of Contents We face substantial competition in the gaming industry. The gaming industry in general, and the markets in which we compete in particular, are highly competitive: · we compete with many world-class destination resorts with greater name recognition, different attractions, amenities and entertainment options; · we compete with the continued growth of gaming on Native American tribal lands; · the existence of legalized gambling in other jurisdictions may reduce the number of visitors to our properties; · certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific venues, including race tracks and/or in specific areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers; and · our properties also compete, and will in the future compete, with all forms of legalized gambling. Many of our competitors have greater financial, selling and marketing, technical and other resources than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors and we may lose market share, which could reduce our revenue and cash flow. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to recover our investment made in connection with the acquisition of the Aquarius. On May 19, 2006, our wholly-owned subsidiary, AREP Laughlin, acquired the Aquarius from affiliates of Harrah’s for approximately $113.6 million, including working capital. We currently plan to spend approximately $40.0 million through 2008 to refurbish rooms, upgrade amenities and acquire new gaming equipment for the Aquarius. Acquisitions generally involve significant risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and corporate culture of the acquired company. Net revenues and operating income for the Aquarius from its acquisition in May 2006 through December 31, 2006 have decreased from the same period in 2005, when it was operated as a division of Harrah’s Operating Company, Inc., primarily due to disruptions to the gaming floor related to construction, upgrading of facilities and the implementation of new marketing programs intended to change the Aquarius’ customer mix. The casino construction program was substantially completed in 2006. We plan to refurbish rooms in 2007 and 2008. There can be no assurance that this acquisition will be profitable or that we will be able to recover our investments. Operating results for our Gaming segment have been adversely affected by a number of factors that have affected and may continue to affect results. Net income for our Gaming segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased from the year ended December 31, 2005. We attribute this decrease to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, increased gas prices, which affect traffic to Las Vegas and Laughlin, disruption from construction at the Stratosphere, the Aquarius and Arizona Charlie’s Boulder, the entrance of a new competitor in the market served by Arizona Charlie’s Decatur and decreased net revenues and operating income at the Aquarius. These factors have affected and may continue to affect our gaming segment’s operating results. Real Estate Operations Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in unentitled land, undeveloped land and distressed development properties. These properties involve more risk than properties on which development has been completed. Unentitled land may not be approved for development. These investments do not generate any operating revenue, while costs are incurred to obtain government approvals and develop the properties. Construction may not be completed within budget or as scheduled and projected rental levels or sales prices may not be achieved and other 25 Back to Table of Contents unpredictable contingencies beyond our control could occur. We will not be able to recoup any of such costs until such time as these properties, or parcels thereof, are either disposed of or developed into income producing assets. We may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of development and rental real estate. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants released on, under, in or from its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. To the extent any such substances are found in or on any property invested in by us, we could be exposed to liability and be required to incur substantial remediation costs. The presence of such substances or the failure to undertake proper remediation may adversely affect the ability to finance, refinance or dispose of such property. We generally conduct a Phase I environmental site assessment on properties in which we are considering investing. A Phase I environmental site assessment involves record review, visual site assessment and personnel interviews, but does not typically include invasive testing procedures such as air, soil or groundwater sampling or other tests performed as part of a Phase II environmental site assessment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these assessments will disclose all potential liabilities or that future property uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or activities at nearby properties will not result in the creation of environmental liabilities with respect to a property. Home Fashion Operations Pending bankruptcy proceedings may result in our ownership of WPI’s common stock being reduced to less than 50%. A legal action in Delaware challenges our ownership of the preferred stock of WPI. Uncertainties arising from these proceedings may adversely affect WPI’s operations and prospects and the value of our investment in it. We currently own approximately 67.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the preferred stock of WPI. As a result of the decision of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York reversing certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Court order pursuant to which we acquired our ownership of a majority of the common stock of WPI, the proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court on remand, and the proceedings in the Delaware action, our percentage of the outstanding shares of common stock of WPI could be reduced to less than 50% and perhaps substantially less and our ownership of the preferred stock of WPI could also be affected. If we were to lose control of WPI, it could adversely affect the business and prospects of WPI and the value of our investment in it. In addition, we consolidated the balance sheet of WPI as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and WPI’s results of operations for the period from the date of acquisition through December 31, 2006. If we were to own less than 50% of the outstanding common stock or the challenge to our preferred stock ownership is successful, we would have to evaluate whether we should consolidate WPI and if so our financial statements could be materially different than as presented as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and for the periods then ended. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. WPI acquired its business from the former owners through bankruptcy proceedings. We cannot assure you that it will be able to operate profitably. WPI acquired the assets of WestPoint Stevens as part of its bankruptcy proceedings. Certain of the issues that contributed to WestPoint Stevens’ filing for bankruptcy, such as intense industry competition, the inability to produce goods at a cost competitive with overseas suppliers, the increasing prevalence of direct sourcing by principal customers and continued incurrence of overhead costs associated with an enterprise larger than the current business can profitably support, continue to exist and may continue to affect WPI’s business operations and financial condition adversely. In addition, during the protracted bankruptcy proceedings of WestPoint Stevens, several of its customers reduced the volume of business done with WestPoint Stevens. We have installed new management to address these issues, but we cannot assure you that new management will be effective. WPI operated at a loss during 2006 and we expect that WPI will continue to operate at a loss during 2007. We cannot assure you that it will be able to operate profitably in the future. 26 Back to Table of Contents The loss of any of WPI’s large customers could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. During 2006 and 2005, WPI’s six largest customers accounted for approximately 50% and 51%, respectively, of its net sales (including net sales by WestPoint Stevens). Other retailers have indicated that they intend to significantly increase their direct sourcing of home fashion products from foreign sources. The loss of any of WPI’s largest accounts, or a material portion of sales to those accounts, would have an adverse effect upon its business, which could be material. A portion of WPI’s sales are derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. A portion of WPI’s sales is derived from licensed designer brands. The license agreements for WPI’s designer brands generally are for a term of two or three years. Some of the licenses are automatically renewable for additional periods, provided that sales thresholds set forth in the license agreements are met. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s business, which effect could be material. Under certain circumstances, these licenses can be terminated without WPI’s consent due to circumstances beyond WPI’s control. A shortage of the principal raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could force WPI to pay more for those materials and, possibly, cause WPI to increase its prices, which could have an adverse effect on WPI’s operations. Any shortage in the raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could adversely affect its operations. The principal raw materials that WPI uses in the manufacture of its products are cotton of various grades and staple lengths and polyester and nylon in staple and filament form. Since cotton is an agricultural product, its supply and quality are subject to weather patterns, disease and other factors. The price of cotton is also influenced by supply and demand considerations, both domestically and worldwide, and by the cost of polyester. Although WPI has been able to acquire sufficient quantities of cotton for its operations in the past, any shortage in the cotton supply by reason of weather patterns, disease or other factors, or a significant increase in the price of cotton, could adversely affect its operations. The price of man-made fibers, such as polyester and nylon, is influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and costs, petroleum prices, cotton prices and the cost of polymers used in producing these fibers. In particular, the effect of increased energy prices may have a direct impact upon the cost of dye and chemicals, polyester and other synthetic fibers. Any significant prolonged petrochemical shortages could significantly affect the availability of man-made fibers and could cause a substantial increase in demand for cotton. This could result in decreased availability of cotton and possibly increased prices and could adversely affect WPI’s operations. The home fashion industry is highly competitive and WPI’s success depends on WPI’s ability to compete effectively in the market. The home fashion industry is highly competitive. WPI’s future success will, to a large extent, depend on its ability to remain a low-cost producer and to remain competitive. WPI competes with both foreign and domestic companies on, among other factors, the basis of price, quality and customer service. In the home fashion market, WPI competes with many companies. WPI’s future success depends on its ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. We cannot assure you of WPI’s ability to compete effectively in any of these areas. Any failure to compete effectively could adversely affect WPI’s sales and, accordingly, its operations. Additionally, the easing of trade restrictions over time has led to growing competition from low priced products imported from Asia and Latin America. The lifting of import quotas in 2005 has accelerated the loss of WPI’s market share. There can be no assurance that the foreign competition will not grow to a level that could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s ability to compete effectively. WPI intends to increase the percentage of its products that are made overseas. There is no assurance that WPI will be successful in obtaining goods of sufficient quality on a timely basis and on advantageous terms. WPI will be subject to additional risks relating to doing business overseas. WPI intends to increase the percentage of its products that are made overseas and may face additional risks associated with these efforts. Adverse factors that WPI may encounter include: · logistical challenges caused by distance; 27 Back to Table of Contents · language and cultural differences; · legal and regulatory restrictions; · the difficulty of enforcing agreements with overseas suppliers; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · political and economic instability; and · potential adverse tax consequences. There has been consolidation of retailers of WPI’s products that may reduce its profitability. Retailers of consumer goods have become fewer and more powerful over time. As buying power has become more concentrated, pricing pressure on vendors has grown. With the ability to buy imported products directly from foreign sources, retailers’ pricing leverage has increased and also allowed for growth in private label brands that displace and compete with WPI proprietary brands. Retailers’ pricing leverage has resulted in a decline in WPI’s unit pricing and margins and resulted in a shift in product mix to more private label programs. If WPI is unable to diminish the decline in its pricing and margins, it may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If it does not comply with these regulations, it may incur significant costs in the future to become compliant. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge, storage, handling, usage and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes used in, or resulting from, its operations, including potential remediation obligations under those laws and regulations. WPI’s operations are also governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to employee safety and health which, among other things, establish exposure limitations for cotton dust, formaldehyde, asbestos and noise, and which regulate chemical, physical and ergonomic hazards in the workplace. Consumer product safety laws, regulations and standards at the federal and state level govern the manufacture and sale of products by WPI. Although WPI does not expect that compliance with any of these laws and regulations will adversely affect its operations, we cannot assure you that regulatory requirements will not become more stringent in the future or that WPI will not incur significant costs to comply with those requirements. Investments We may not be able to identify suitable investments, and our investments may not result in favorable returns or mayresult in losses. Our partnership agreement allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities we believe exist outside of our operating businesses. The equity securities in which we may invest may include common stocks, preferred stocks and securities convertible into common stocks, as well as warrants to purchase these securities. The debt securities in which we may invest may include bonds, debentures, notes, or non-rated mortgage-related securities, municipal obligations, bank debt and mezzanine loans. Certain of these securities may include lower rated or non-rated securities which may provide the potential for higher yields and therefore may entail higher risk and may include the securities of bankrupt or distressed companies. In addition, we may engage in various investment techniques, including derivatives, options and futures transactions, foreign currency transactions, “short” sales and leveraging for either hedging or other purposes. We may concentrate our activities by owning a significant or controlling interest in certain investments. We may not be successful in finding suitable opportunities to invest our cash and our strategy of investing in undervalued assets may expose us to numerous risks. Our investments may be subject to significant uncertainties. Our investments may not be successful for many reasons including, but not limited to: · fluctuation of interest rates; · lack of control in minority investments; · worsening of general economic and market conditions; 28 Back to Table of Contents · lack of diversification; · fluctuation of U.S. dollar exchange rates; and · adverse legal and regulatory developments that may affect particular businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 