ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices are volatile, and a decline in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, cash flow from operations and future growth depend upon the prices and demand for crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. The markets for these commodities are very volatile. Even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas remained low in 2012 when compared with average prices in prior years. In addition, periods of sustained lower prices may compel us to reduce our capital expenditures and budget for drilling. Prices for crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: · the domestic and foreign supply of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; · the price of foreign imports; · worldwide economic conditions; · political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, including the Middle East and South America; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per share basis, but also may reduce the amount of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. A reduction in our reserves could have other adverse consequences including a possible downward redetermination of the availability of borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit agreement, which would restrict our liquidity. Additionally, further or continued declines in prices could result in non-cash charges to earnings due to impairment write downs. Any such write-down could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. Part of our strategy involves drilling in new or emerging plays; therefore, our drilling results in these areas are not certain. The results of our drilling in new or emerging plays, such as in our East Texas and South Texas resource plays and the horizontal redevelopment of the Woodbine and other formations in Southeast Texas, are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are more developed and with longer production history. Since new or emerging plays and new formations have limited production history, we are less able to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion strategies and techniques in these formations will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established. Accordingly, our drilling results are subject to greater risks in these areas and could be unsuccessful. We may be unable to execute our expected drilling program in these areas because of disappointing drilling results, capital constraints, lease expirations, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline take-away capacity, availability of drilling rigs and other services or otherwise, and/or crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids price declines. To the extent we are unable to execute our expected drilling program in these areas, our return on investment may not be as attractive as we anticipate and our common stock price may decrease. We could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future if our drilling results are unsuccessful. 16 Initial production rates in shale plays tend to decline steeply in the first twelve months of production and are not necessarily indicative of sustained production rates. Our future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, including the level of production from existing wells. Initial production rates in shale plays tend to decline steeply in the first twelve months of production and are not necessarily indicative of sustained production rates. As a result, we generally must locate and develop or acquire new crude oil or natural gas reserves to offset declines in these initial production rates. If we are unable to do so, these declines in initial production rates may result in a decrease in our overall production and revenue over time. Our development and exploration operations, including on our resource play acreage, require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of undeveloped acreage and a decline in our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit agreement. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: · our proved reserves; · the level of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids are sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels, to further develop and exploit our current properties, or to conduct exploratory activity. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may need to seek additional financing. Our credit agreements contain covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders. Our lenders may withhold this consent in their sole discretion. In addition, if our borrowing base is redetermined resulting in a lower borrowing base under our senior secured revolving credit agreement, we may be unable to obtain financing otherwise available under our senior secured revolving credit agreement. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital resources.” Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity on terms that are similar to existing debt, and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2012, we had $244.1 million outstanding in principal amount, excluding a $4.7 million discount, of long-term debt. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences, including the following: · funds available for our operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures will be reduced as a result of the dedication of a portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; 17 · we may be more highly leveraged than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · certain of the borrowings under our debt agreements have floating rates of interest, which causes us to be vulnerable to increases in interest rates; · our degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable to downturns in general economic conditions; · our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited; and · our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements may be reduced. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit agreement and second lien credit agreement contain a number of significant covenants that place limitations on our activities and operations, including those relating to: · creation of liens; · hedging; · mergers, acquisitions, asset sales or dispositions; · payments of dividends; · incurrence of additional indebtedness; and · certain leases and investments outside of the ordinary course of business. Our credit agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary or desirable corporate activities. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could also result in a default under our credit agreements. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital resources” for further information regarding future compliance with these covenants. In addition, our borrowing base on our senior secured revolving credit agreement could be reduced by our lenders and limit our availability of future borrowings, or require us to pay back current borrowings in excess of the new borrowing base. If we were required to pay back all or a portion of our debt, even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. See “—Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves.” Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Legislation has been proposed in the past that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These proposed changes would include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of these or any other similar changes in U.S. Federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively impact the value of an investment in our preferred stock or our common stock. 18 Slower economic recovery in the U.S. and other countries may materially adversely impact our operations results. The U.S. and other economies are recovering from a global financial crisis and recession which began in 2008. Growth has resumed, but has been modest and at an unsteady rate. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the financial crisis and recession, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in the years leading up to the crisis, and more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. NYMEX settlement prices for natural gas and crude oil prices dropped dramatically in 2009 from record levels in July 2008. While prices of crude oil and natural gas liquids have improved, and we hedged natural gas and crude oil prices on a portion of our forecasted production from proved developed producing reserves for up to two years forward, a reduction in demand for, and the resulting lower prices of, crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred net losses in the past and there can be no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. We have incurred net losses in four of the last five fiscal years. We cannot assure you that our current level of operating results will continue or improve. Our activities could require additional debt or equity financing. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly depending upon a number of factors, including industry conditions, prices of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, rates of production, timing of capital expenditures and drilling success. Negative changes in these variables could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market value of our common stock. We may not be able to fully realize the value of our net operating loss carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2012, we had federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $110.7 million, which are available to reduce our future federal taxable income and related income tax liability. Our federal NOL carryforwards of $110.7 million have a valuation allowance of $38.0 million reducing the amount to $72.7 million. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and our projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, we believe it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of the majority of these NOL carryforwards to reduce future Federal net income tax obligations. Future net losses could affect our ability to realize during the appropriate carryforward periods our available net operating loss carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes and the value of the related deferred tax asset. Our ability to use our available net operating loss carryforwards could be limited if we do not generate sufficient taxable income in future periods and the amount of the related deferred tax asset ultimately realizable could be further reduced in the future if our estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward periods are reduced. We currently expect we will not be able to utilize NOL carryforwards of approximately $8.8 million, or $3.1 million tax adjusted, due to prior occurrences of an “ownership change”, as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and have included this amount in our total valuation allowance of $38.0 million. If we were to experience a further “ownership change,” as determined under Section 382, our ability to offset taxable income arising after the ownership change with NOL carryforwards arising prior to the ownership change would be limited, possibly substantially. An ownership change would establish an annual limitation on the amount of our pre-change NOL carryforwards we could utilize to offset our taxable income in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the highest long-term tax-exempt rate during the three months prior to the date of the ownership change. The long-term tax-exempt rate is a rate published each month by the Internal Revenue Service. The application of this limitation could prevent full utilization of our pre-change NOL carryforwards arising prior to their expiration. It is possible that additional issuances of our common stock within the next few years, or the sale of our common stock by our larger shareholders, could cause us to experience another ownership change, in which case any NOLs existing at the time of the change would be limited in the manner described above. 19 Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions or data could materially reduce the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many estimates, including estimates based upon assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or estimates could materially reduce the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report. See “Item 1. Business” for information about our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, drilling and operating expenses, the amount and timing of capital expenditures, taxes and the availability of funds. Actual future production, crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report. A decrease in commodity prices can result in significant downward reserve revisions as some reserves are no longer economically producible. Other reserves may reduce PV-10 reserve value despite positive current cash flows, because discounted cash flows might be less than the 10% discount utilized in such measures. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Approximately 46% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2012 were proved undeveloped reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in the reserve engineer reports assumes that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be sure that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this Annual Report is the current market value of our estimated crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves. In accordance with the requirements of the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves are based on prices and costs on the date of the estimate, held flat for the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves as of December 31, 2012 was based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the period January through December 2012. For crude oil and natural gas liquids volumes, the average West Texas Intermediate posted price was $91.21 per barrel. For natural gas volumes, the average Henry Hub spot price was $2.76 per MMBtu. The following sensitivity analyses for crude oil and natural gas do not include the volatility reducing effects of our derivative hedging instruments in place at December 31, 2012. If crude oil prices were $1.00 per Bbl lower than the price used, our PV-10 as of December 31, 2012 would have decreased from $340.1 million to $335.4 million. If natural gas prices were $0.10 per Mcf lower than the price used, our PV-10 as of December 31, 2012, would have decreased from $340.1 million to $336.4 million. Any adjustments to the estimates of proved reserves or decreases in the price of crude oil or natural gas may decrease the value of our common stock. A reconciliation of our Standardized Measure to PV-10 is provided under "Item 2. Properties — Proved Reserves". Actual future net cash flows will also be affected by increases or decreases in consumption by oil and gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties affects the 20 timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. Our use of 2D and 3D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. In addition, the use of such technology requires greater predrilling expenditures, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are uncertain. For example, we have over 4,200 square miles of 3D data in the South Texas and Gulf Coast regions. However, even when used and properly interpreted, 3D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know if hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. Other geologists and petroleum professionals, when studying the same seismic data, may have significantly different interpretations than our professionals. In addition, the use of 3D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses due to such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be geologically successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area may not improve. Drilling for and producing crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling and operating activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can be unprofitable, not only from dry holes, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: · unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations; · pressures; · fires; · explosions and blowouts; · pipe or cement failures; · environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; · loss of drilling fluid circulation; · title problems; · facility or equipment malfunctions; · unexpected operational events; · shortages of skilled personnel; · shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services or of water used in hydraulic fracturing activities; · compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; · natural disasters; and · adverse weather conditions. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination, clean-up responsibilities, loss of wells, repairs to resume operations; and regulatory fines or penalties. Insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. We carry limited environmental insurance, thus, losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess 21 of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not covered in full or in part by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition strategy may subject us to greater risks. The successful acquisition of properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond our control. Such assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy uncertain. In connection with such an assessment, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Such a review, however, will not reveal all existing or potential problems, costs and liabilities, nor will it permit us, as the buyer, to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess their capabilities or deficiencies fully. We may not inspect every well and, even when an inspection is undertaken, structural and environmental problems may not necessarily be observable. We may be unable to successfully integrate the properties and assets we acquire with our existing operations. Integration of the properties and assets we acquire may be a complex, time consuming and costly process. Failure to timely and successfully integrate these assets and properties with our operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. The difficulties of integrating these assets and properties present numerous risks, including: · acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; · we may need to (i) recruit additional personnel and we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed and (ii) expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those associated with the acquired properties, and failure to do so may lead to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or distract our management; and · our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. We are also exposed to risks that are commonly associated with acquisitions of this type, such as unanticipated liabilities and costs, some of which may be material. As a result, the anticipated benefits of acquiring assets and properties may not be fully realized, if at all. When we acquire properties, in most cases, we are not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. We generally acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties, and in these situations we cannot assure you that we will identify all areas of existing or potential exposure. In those circumstances in which we have contractual indemnification rights for pre-closing liabilities, we cannot assure you that the seller will be able to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, the competition to acquire producing crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids properties is intense and many of our larger competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire producing crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids properties that have economically recoverable reserves for acceptable prices. We may incur substantial impairment of proved properties. If management’s estimates of the recoverable proved reserves on a property are revised downward or if oil and/or natural gas prices decline, we may be required to record additional non-cash impairment write-downs in the future, which would result in a negative impact to our financial results. Furthermore, any sustained decline in oil and/or natural gas prices may require us to make further impairments. We review our proved oil and gas properties for impairment on a depletable unit basis when circumstances suggest there is a need for such a review. To determine if a depletable unit is impaired, we compare the carrying value of the depletable unit to the undiscounted future net cash flows by applying management’s estimates of future oil and natural gas prices to the estimated future production of oil and gas reserves over the economic life of the property. Future net cash flows are based upon our independent reservoir engineers’ estimates of proved reserves. In addition, other factors such as probable and possible reserves are taken into consideration when justified by economic conditions. For each property determined to be impaired, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the property on a depletable unit basis. 22 Fair value is estimated to be the present value of expected future net cash flows. Any impairment charge incurred is recorded in accumulated depreciation, depletion, and amortization to reduce our recorded basis in the asset. Each part of this calculation is subject to a large degree of judgment, including the determination of the depletable units’ estimated reserves, future cash flows and fair value. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we recorded impairments related to proved oil and gas properties of $114.4 million, zero and $0.5 million, respectively. Management’s assumptions used in calculating oil and gas reserves or regarding the future cash flows or fair value of our properties are subject to change in the future. Any change could cause impairment expense to be recorded, impacting our net income or loss and our basis in the related asset. Any change in reserves directly impacts our estimate of future cash flows from the property, as well as the property’s fair value. Additionally, as management’s views related to future prices change, the change will affect the estimate of future net cash flows and the fair value estimates. Changes in either of these amounts will directly impact the calculation of impairment. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate a portion of the properties in which we own an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: · the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; · the operator’s expertise and financial resources; · the operator’s ability to procure drilling and completion services; · the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and · the operator’s selection of suitable technology. A majority of our production, revenue and cash flow from operating activities are derived from assets that are concentrated in a few geographic areas, mostly within the state of Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in those few geographic areas. The majority of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2012 and our production during 2012 were associated with our Southeast and South Texas properties. Accordingly, if the level of production from these properties substantially declines or is otherwise subject to a disruption in our operations resulting from operational problems, government intervention (including potential regulation or limitation of the use of high pressure fracture stimulation techniques in these formations) or natural disasters, it could have a material adverse effect on our overall production level and our revenue. If our access to sales markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids transportation arrangements may hinder our access to crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possible loss of a lease due to lack of production. 23 Unless we replace our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to raise capital and the value of our common stock. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The value of our common stock and our ability to raise capital will be adversely impacted if we are not able to replace our reserves that are depleted by production. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. The potential lack of availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and crude oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. When the prices of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids increase, or the demand for equipment and services is greater than the supply in certain areas, we typically encounter an increase in the cost of securing drilling rigs, equipment and supplies. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our hedging activities could result in financial losses or reduce our income. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, as well as interest rates, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our crude oil, natural gas and/or natural gas liquids production and our debt that could result in both realized and unrealized hedging losses. We utilize financial instruments to hedge commodity price exposure to declining prices on our crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production. We typically use a combination of puts, swaps and costless collars. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into hedging transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. Our larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. 24 We depend on our senior management team and other key personnel. Accordingly, the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and the results of operations and future growth. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of our other employees with critical skills needed to operate our business could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations and future growth. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For instance, we may be unable to obtain all necessary permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or public opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. All such costs may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with much authority relating to the exploration for, and the development, production, transportation and marketing of, crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on us. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gasses are contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA establishing PSD construction and Title V operating permit requirements for certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. We could become subject to these PSD and Title V permit requirements and be required to install “best available control technology” to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that we seek to construct in the future if such facilities emitted volumes of GHGs in excess of threshold permitting levels. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, including certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities, which may include certain of our operations. While Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. As a result, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emission allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and natural gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Finally, some scientists have concluded 25 that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays, and adversely affect our production. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. Also, in November 2011, the EPA announced its intent to develop and issue regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and the agency currently plans to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that would seek public input on the design and scope of such disclosure regulations. Moreover, from time to time, Congress has considered adopting legislation intended to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition to any actions by Congress, certain states have adopted or are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose new or more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place or manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we currently or in the future plan to operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012 and a final report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. Our operations are subject to compliance with environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling, underground injection or other regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA the OSHA and analogous state agencies have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, the 26 imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to joint and several, strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or natural resource damages. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly well drilling, construction, completion or water management activities, or waste control, handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. See “Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulations.” The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) enacted in 2010, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank At requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC issued a final rule on position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions are exempt from these position limits. The position-limits rule was vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Colombia in September 2012 and the CFTC recently stated that it will appeal the District Court’s decision. The CFTC also finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “swap dealer,” and “major swap participant.” Some regulations, however, remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. 27 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Two stockholders hold a significant number of our shares, which will limit your ability to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and those stockholders’ interests may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Of the approximately 46.1 million shares of our common stock outstanding at December 31, 2012, approximately 15.5 million shares were beneficially held by OCM GW Holdings, LLC (“Oaktree Holdings”) and 6.7 million shares were beneficially held by America Capital Energy Corporation (“ACEC”). As a result, Oaktree Holdings owns or controls outstanding common stock representing, in the aggregate, an approximate 33.7% voting interest in us and ACEC owns or controls outstanding common stock representing, in the aggregate, an approximate 14.5% voting interest in us. As a result of this stock ownership, Oaktree Holdings and ACEC will possess significant influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and significant corporate transactions. Such ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change of control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Oaktree Holdings, ACEC and their respective affiliates engage, from time to time in the ordinary course of their respective businesses, in trading securities of, and investing in, energy companies. As a result, conflicts may arise between the interests of Oaktree Holdings or ACEC, on the one hand, and the interests of our other stockholders, on the other hand. Either Oaktree Holdings or ACEC may, from time to time, compete directly or indirectly with us or prevent us from taking advantage of corporate opportunities. Either Oaktree Holdings or ACEC may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your common stock at or above the price you paid for your common stock. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including: · our operating and financial performance and prospects; · our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; · conditions that impact demand for crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; · future announcements concerning our business; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; · actions of competitors; · market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · changes in government and environmental regulation; · general market, economic and political conditions; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · sales of common stock by us, our significant stockholders or members of our management team; and · natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so you may not receive funds without selling your common stock. Our board of directors presently intends to retain all of our earnings for the expansion of our business; therefore, we have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial 28 condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends, and other considerations that our board of directors deems relevant. Also, the provisions of our senior secured revolving credit agreement and second lien credit agreement restrict the payment of dividends. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 1.7 million options to purchase shares of our common stock outstanding, of which 0.5 million were vested. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: · permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of the series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, if any, and any qualification, limitations or restrictions of the shares of such series; · require special meetings of the stockholders to be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or by resolution of a majority of the board of directors; · require business at special meetings to be limited to the stated purpose or purposes of that meeting; · require that stockholder action be taken at a meeting rather than by written consent, unless approved by our board of directors; · require that stockholders follow certain procedures, including advance notice procedures, to bring certain matters before an annual meeting or to nominate a director for election; and · permit directors to fill vacancies in our board of directors. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by Oaktree Holdings and ACEC, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. We are subject to the Delaware business combination law. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. 29 Section 203 defines a “business combination” as a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholders. Section 203 defines an “interested stockholder” as a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or, in some cases, within three years prior, did own, 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock. Under Section 203, a business combination between us and an interested stockholder is prohibited unless: · our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholders becoming an interested stockholder prior to the date the person attained the status; · upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding, for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding, shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers and issued employee stock plans, under which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held under the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or · the business combination is approved by our board of directors on or subsequent to the date the person became an interested stockholder and authorized at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. This provision has an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of our common stock. With approval of our stockholders, we could amend our certificate of incorporation in the future to elect not to be governed by the anti-takeover law. We have the authority to issue “blank check” preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock without further stockholder action in one or more series and to designate the dividend rate, voting rights and other rights preferences and restrictions. The issuance of preferred stock could have an adverse impact on holders of common stock. Preferred stock is senior to common stock upon liquidation. Additionally, preferred stock could be issued with dividend rights senior to the rights of holders of common stock. Finally, preferred stock could be issued as part of a “poison pill,” which could have the effect of deterring offers to acquire our company. The holders of our common stock do not have cumulative voting rights, preemptive rights or rights to convert their common stock to other securities. We are authorized to issue 200.0 million shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share (“Common Stock”). As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 46.3 million and 46.1 million shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding, respectively. Since the holders of our Common Stock do not have cumulative voting rights, the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock present, in person or by proxy, will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. The holders of shares of our Common Stock do not have preemptive rights or rights to convert their Common Stock into other securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 