Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Structure Our general partner and its control person could exercise their influence over us to your detriment. Mr. Icahn, through affiliates, currently owns 100% of API, our general partner, and approximately 86.5% of our outstanding preferred units and approximately 90.0% of our depositary units, and, as a result, has the ability to influence many aspects of our operations and affairs. API also is the general partner of AREH. We have invested and may in the future invest in entities in which Mr. Icahn also invests or purchase investments from him or his affiliates. Although API has never received fees in connection with our investments, our partnership agreement allows for the payment of these fees. Mr. Icahn may pursue other business opportunities in which we compete and there is no requirement that any additional business opportunities be presented to us. The interests of Mr. Icahn, including his interests in entities in which he and we have invested or may invest in the future, may differ from your interests as a unit holder and, as such, he may take actions that may not be in your interest. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Mr. Icahn’s interests might conflict with your interests as a unit holder. 29 Table of Contents Certain of our management are committed to the management of other businesses. Certain of the individuals who conduct the affairs of API, including the chairman of our board of directors, Mr. Icahn, and our principal executive officer and vice chairman of the board of directors, Keith A. Meister, are, and will in the future be, committed to the management of other businesses owned or controlled by Mr. Icahn and his affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus significant amounts of time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise between our interests and the other entities or business activities in which such individuals are involved. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future as such affiliates and we may compete for the same assets, purchasers and sellers of assets or financings. To service our indebtedness and pay distributions with respect to our units, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay distributions with respect to our units and to fund operations will depend on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our current businesses and businesses that we acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are a holding company and will depend on the businesses of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations. We are a holding company. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency obligations, marketable equity and debt securities and other short-term investments, our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Moreover, if we make significant investments in operating businesses, it is likely that we will reduce the liquid assets at AREP and AREH in order to fund those investments and ongoing operations. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make distributions with respect to depositary units and preferred units likely will depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries in the form of loans, dividends, distributions or otherwise. The operating results of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and distributions and intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to us may be restricted by applicable law or covenants contained in debt agreements and other agreements to which these subsidiaries may be subject or enter into in the future. The terms of any borrowings of our subsidiaries or other entities in which we own equity may restrict dividends, distributions or loans to us. For example, the notes issued by our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, ACEP, contain restrictions on dividends and distributions and loans to us, as well as on other transactions with us. ACEP also has a credit agreement which contains financial covenants that have the effect of restricting dividends or distributions. Our subsidiary, NEG Oil & Gas has a credit facility which restricts dividends, distributions and other transactions with us. These agreements preclude our receiving payments from the operations of our Gaming and our Oil & Gas properties which account for a significant portion of our revenues and cash flows. We are negotiating similar facilities for WPI, Atlantic Coast and our real estate development properties which may also restrict dividends, distributions and other transactions with us. To the degree any distributions and transfers are impaired or prohibited, our ability to make payments on our debt will be limited. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our 8.125% senior notes due 2012 and our 7.125% senior notes due 2013 do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. We may incur additional indebtedness if we comply with certain financial tests contained in the indentures that govern these notes. As of December 31, 2005, based upon these tests, we could have incurred up to 30 Table of Contents approximately $1.4 billion of additional indebtedness. Our subsidiaries, other than AREH, are not subject to any of the covenants contained in the indentures with respect to our debt, including the covenant restricting debt incurrence. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we, and they now face could intensify. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under any of our debt instruments, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. The market for our securities may be volatile. The market for our equity securities may be subject to disruptions that could cause substantial volatility in their prices. Any such disruptions may adversely affect the value of your securities. We have only recently made cash distributions to our unitholders and future distributions, if any, can be affected by numerous factors. We made cash distributions with respect to each of the third and fourth quarters of 2005 in the amount of $.10 per depositary unit. The payment of future distributions will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner quarterly, based on a review of a number of factors, including those described below and other factors that it deems relevant at the time that declaration of a distribution is considered. Our ability to pay distributions will depend on numerous factors, including the availability of adequate cash flow from operations; the proceeds, if any, from divestitures; our capital requirements and other obligations; restrictions contained in our financing arrangements, and our issuances of additional equity and debt securities. The availability of cash flow in the future depends as well upon events and circumstances outside our control, including prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and similar factors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions or as to the timing of any distribution. If distributions are made, there can be no assurance that holders of depositary units may not be required to recognize taxable income in excess of cash distributions made in respect of the period in which a distribution is made. Holders of our depositary units have limited voting rights, rights to participate in our management and control of us. Our general partner manages and operates AREP. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of outstanding units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Holders of depositary units have no right to elect the general partner on an annual or other continuing basis, and our general partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the outstanding depositary units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt securities. As a result, holders of depositary units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities. Holders of depositary units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets. We conduct our businesses through AREH in several states. Maintenance of limited liability will require compliance with legal requirements of those states. We are the sole limited partner of AREH. Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have not clearly been established in several states. If it were determined that AREH has been conducting business in any state without compliance with the 31 Table of Contents applicable limited partnership statute or the possession or exercise of the right by the partnership, as limited partner of AREH, to remove its general partner, to approve certain amendments to the AREH partnership agreement or to take other action pursuant to the AREH partnership agreement, constituted “control” of AREH’s business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, AREP and/or unitholders, under certain circumstances, might be held personally liable for AREH’s obligations to the same extent as our general partner. Further, under the laws of certain states, AREP might be liable for the amount of distributions made to AREP by AREH. Holders of our depositary units may also have to repay AREP amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to holders of common units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Additionally, under Delaware law an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations, if any, of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him or her at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. We may be subject to the pension liabilities of our affiliates. Mr. Icahn, through certain affiliates, currently owns 100% of API and approximately 86.5% of our outstanding depositary units and preferred units. Applicable pension and tax laws make each member of a “controlled group” of entities, generally defined as entities in which there are at least an 80% common ownership interest, jointly and severally liable for certain pension plan obligations of any member of the controlled group. These pension obligations include ongoing contributions to fund the plan, as well as liability for any unfunded liabilities that may exist at the time the plan is terminated. In addition, the failure to pay these pension obligations when due may result in the creation of liens in favor of the pension plan or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, against the assets of each member of the controlled group. As a result of the more than 80% ownership interest in us by Mr. Icahn’s affiliates, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the pension liabilities of all entities in which Mr. Icahn has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 80%. One such entity, ACF Industries LLC, is the sponsor of several pension plans which are underfunded by a total of approximately $21.8 million on an ongoing actuarial basis and $135.2 million if those plans were terminated, as most recently reported by the plans’ actuaries. These liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in promised benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. As members of the controlled group, we would be liable for any failure of ACF to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of the ACF pension plans. In addition, other entities now or in the future within the controlled group that includes us may have pension plan obligations that are, or may become, underfunded and we would be liable for any failure of such entities to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of such plans. The current underfunded status of the ACF pension plans requires ACF to notify the PBGC of certain “reportable events,” such as if we cease to be a member of the ACF controlled group, or if we make certain extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions. The obligation to report could cause us to seek to delay or reconsider the occurrence of such reportable events. Starfire Holding Corporation, which is 100% owned by Mr. Icahn, has undertaken to indemnify us and our subsidiaries from losses resulting from any imposition of pension funding or termination liabilities that may be imposed on us and our subsidiaries or our assets as a result of being a member of the Icahn controlled group. The Starfire indemnity provides, among other things, that so long as such contingent liabilities exist and could be imposed on us, Starfire will not make any distributions to its stockholders that would reduce its net worth to below $250.0 million. Nonetheless, Starfire may not be able to fund its indemnification obligations to us. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company. Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in companies in which we own less than a 50% interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. In order not to become an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions with an eye toward the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, such as our loss of control of WPI, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. See Note 25 of notes to consolidated financial statements and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. We may become taxable as a corporation. We operate as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income and deductions to our partners. We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership for past years as well as future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income, which includes interest, dividends, oil and gas revenues, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. We believe that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to structure our business in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income this year and in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such structuring will be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of more than 10% of non-qualifying income. If less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, we may be subject to corporate tax on our net income at regular corporate tax rates. Further, if less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income for past years, we may be subject to corporate level tax plus interest and possibly penalties. In addition, if we register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it is likely that we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate tax on our net income at regular corporate tax rates. The cost of paying federal and possibly state income tax, either for past years or going forward, would be a significant liability and would reduce our funds available to make interest and principal payments on the notes. To meet the qualifying income test we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner or avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions. 33 Table of Contents During 2004 and 2005, we identified three significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. If we were to discover other significant deficiencies in the future, including at any recently acquired entity, it may affect adversely our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect our ability to remain listed with the New York Stock Exchange or the market price of our depositary units. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We have discovered two significant deficiencies in internal controls at the Holding Company and one of a subsidiary as defined under interim standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, that require remediation. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affect a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. Throughout 2005, we implemented processes to address a significant deficiency in our consolidation process reported by management in 2004 during its evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting. During the third quarter of 2005, we identified a significant deficiency related to our periodic reconciliation, review and analysis of investment accounts. This significant deficiency arose from a lack of monitoring and review controls. We have engaged additional resources and enhanced our treasury function to provide what we believe is the appropriate level of control. During the fourth quarter of 2005, National Energy Group’s management identified a significant deficiency related to the lack of a detailed review of the assumptions utilized in the determination of its deferred tax asset valuation allowance. National Energy Group has implemented procedures to verify the detailed review of the tax provision by its third party tax advisor including verification of the review and validation of all assumptions used in the determination of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Neither WPI nor Atlantic Coast has completed its review of internal control over financial reporting. To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our or our consolidated subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting, such deficiencies may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the New York Stock Exchange. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our depositary units or the rating of our debt. Risks Related to our Businesses General In addition to the following risk factors specific to each of our businesses, all of our businesses are subject to the effects of the following: • the continued threat of terrorism; • economic downturn; • loss of any of our or our subsidiaries key personnel; • the availability, as needed, of additional financing; and • the continued availability of insurance at acceptable rates. 34 Table of Contents Oil & Gas Oil and gas prices are volatile. A decrease in oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. A substantial decline in the prices NEG Oil & Gas receives for our oil and gas production would have a material adverse effect on NEG Oil & Gas, as our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, cash flows, rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties depend primarily upon those prices. For example, changes in the prices we receive for oil and gas could affect our ability to finance capital expenditures, make acquisitions, pay dividends, borrow money and satisfy our financial obligations. In addition, declines in prices could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our reserves. Oil and natural gas are commodities and their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world geopolitical conditions. The prices of oil and gas are affected by a variety of other factors that are beyond our control, including: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • domestic and foreign political conditions, including embargoes, affecting oil-producing activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration activity and inventories; • the price and availability of domestic and imported oil and natural gas; • the price, availability and consumer acceptance of alternative fuel sources; • the availability of refining capacity; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • weather conditions; • financial and commercial market uncertainty; • worldwide economic conditions; and • disruptions as a result of natural calamities. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and gas price movements. Our production is weighted toward natural gas, making earnings and cash flow more sensitive to natural gas price fluctuations. Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flow is difficult to do with any certainty. The reserve data included in this annual report on Form 10-K represent estimates only. Estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves is a complex process that requires interpretations of available technical data and various estimates, including estimates based upon assumptions relating to economic factors, including future commodity prices, production costs, production and ad valorem taxes and availability of capital, estimates of required capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. In addition, there are numerous uncertainties about when reserves may be classified as proved as opposed to possible or probable. Furthermore, actual results will vary from our estimates and such variances may be significant. At December 31, 2005, 50% of the estimated proved reserves for NEG Oil & Gas were proved undeveloped and 8% were proved developed non-producing. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves are almost always based on analogy to existing wells instead of the performance data used to estimate producing reserves. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures 35 Table of Contents and successful drilling operations. Revenues from estimated proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until some time in the future, if at all. The reserve data assumes that we will be required to make significant capital expenditures to develop its reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, these estimates may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield gas or oil in commercially viable quantities. We describe some of our current prospects and plans to explore those prospects in this annual report on Form 10-K. A prospect is a property on which NEG Oil & Gas has identified what our geoscientists believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of gas or oil. NEG Oil & Gas’ prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. However, the use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable NEG Oil & Gas to know conclusively prior to drilling and testing whether gas or oil will be present or, if present, whether gas or oil will be present in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. From January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005, NEG Oil & Gas participated in drilling a total of 279 gross wells, of which 25 have been identified as dry holes. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry holes in our current and future prospects, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. Our Oil & Gas business involves significant operating risks. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and gas wells, including: • well blowouts; • craterings and explosions; • pipe failures and ruptures; • pipeline accidents and failures; • casing collapses; • unexpected formations or pressures; • fires; • mechanical and operational problems that affect production; • formations with abnormal pressures; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids; and • releases of contaminants into the environment, including groundwater contamination. In addition to lost production and increased costs, these hazards could cause serious injuries, fatalities, contamination or property damage for which NEG Oil & Gas could be held responsible. The potential consequences of these hazards are particularly severe for NEG Oil & Gas because a significant portion of our operations are conducted offshore and in other environmentally sensitive areas. While NEG Oil & Gas maintains insurance against many of these risks, we do not maintain insurance in amounts that cover all of the losses to which we may be subject, and the insurance we have may not continue to be available on acceptable terms. The occurrence of an uninsured or underinsured loss could result in significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. 36 Table of Contents The marketability of our production is dependent upon gathering systems, transportation facilities and processing facilities that we do not control. Market conditions and the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, gas gathering systems, transportation barges and processing facilities owned by third parties. We do not control these facilities and they may not be available to us in the future. Alternative delivery methods could be either prohibitively expensive or available only after a period of delay, if at all. Any significant change in relationships with third party operators or market factors affecting operator of any third-party transportation and processing facilities NEG Oil & Gas uses could adversely impact its ability to deliver to market the oil and natural gas we produce and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. These are risks for which NEG Oil & Gas generally does not maintain insurance. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if one or more transportation, gathering or processing facility, became unavailable or otherwise unable to provide services. Commodity price risk management activities may limit future revenues from price increases and result in financial losses or reduce its income. To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and gas, NEG Oil & Gas enters into derivative contracts with respect to a substantial portion of its oil and gas production. Its revolving credit facility currently permits us to use derivatives for up to 80% of the expected volumes associated with proved developed producing reserves. Derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than expected; • a counterparty to a derivative contract fails to perform under the contract; • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative contract and actual prices received; or • there is a sudden, unexpected event that materially impacts oil or natural gas prices. Total net realized losses on derivative instruments included in the oil and gas revenues for NEG Oil & Gas were $51.3 million in 2005 and $16.6 million in 2004. In addition, rising oil and gas prices caused us to incur unrealized commodity derivative losses of $69.3 million in 2005. These unrealized losses resulted because we do not elect hedge accounting treatment for our derivative positions. Changes in the fair market value of the derivative positions were therefore required to be recognized in our statement of operations. NEG Oil & Gas may incur realized and unrealized losses of this type in the future. Derivative contracts may also limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in the prices for oil and gas. Oil and gas revenues may continue to experience significant volatility in the future due to changes in the fair value of the derivative contracts. The prices NEG Oil & Gas receives for our oil and gas production affect its: • cash flow available for capital expenditures: • ability to borrow and raise additional capital; • quantity of oil and natural gas it can produce; • quantity of oil and gas reserves; and • operating results for oil and natural gas activities. NEG Oil & Gas generally enters into derivative contracts for a substantial portion of our expected future oil and gas production to reduce our exposure to commodity price decreases. Changes in the fair value of our derivatives contracts have a direct effect on our revenue. NEG Oil & Gas has used cost-free collars and options to put products to a purchaser at a specified price, or floor. In these transactions, NEG Oil & Gas will usually have the option to receive from the counterparty to the 37 Table of Contents derivative contracts a specified price or the excess of a specified price over a floating marketing price. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, the party to the derivative contract is required to pay the counterparty all or a portion of these differences multiplied by the quantity subject to the derivative contract. As of December 31, 2005, NEG Oil & Gas was not a party to any derivative contracts that require an initial deposit of cash collateral. However, its working capital could be impacted in the future if it enters into derivative arrangements that require cash collateral and commodity prices subsequently change in a manner adverse to us. Further, the obligation to post cash or other collateral could, if imposed, adversely affect our liquidity. We may experience difficulty finding and acquiring additional reserves and may be unable to compensate for the depletion of proved reserves. The future success and growth of our operations depend upon the ability of NEG Oil & Gas to find or acquire additional economically recoverable oil and gas reserves. Except to the extent that it conducts successful exploration or development activities or acquires properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will generally decline as they are produced. The decline rate varies depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Future oil and gas reserves and production, and, therefore, cash flow and income will be highly dependent upon the level of success in exploiting current reserves and acquiring or finding additional reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. To the extent cash flow from operations is not sufficient and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves could be impaired. Development projects and acquisition activities may not result in additional reserves. NEG Oil & Gas may not have success drilling productive wells at economic returns sufficient to replace our current and future production and reserves which we acquire may contain undetected problems or issues that did not initially appear to be significant to us. Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect the results of operations of NEG Oil & Gas. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other oil field equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and service. It is beyond the control and ability of NEG Oil & Gas to predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease the profit margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations which we currently have planned and budgeted. Oil and gas exploration, exploitation and development activities may not be successful. Exploration, exploitation and development activities are subject to many risks. For example, we cannot assure you that new wells drilled by NEG Oil & Gas will be productive or that NEG Oil & Gas will recover all or any portion of its investment in such wells. Drilling for oil and gas often involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient oil or gas to return a profit at then-realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. The seismic data and other technologies that are used do not allow NEG Oil & Gas to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or gas is present or that it can be produced economically. The cost of exploration, exploitation and development activities is subject to numerous uncertainties beyond our control, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Further, our development activities may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including: • title problems; • problems in delivery of our oil and natural gas to market; 38 Table of Contents • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • shortages of, or delays in obtaining, equipment or qualified personnel; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and • costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and services. Our acquisition activities may not be successful. NEG Oil & Gas intends to acquire additional oil and gas properties, or businesses that own or operate such properties, when attractive opportunities arise. NEG Oil & Gas may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. If NEG Oil & Gas does identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, it may be unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with the seller or finance the acquisition. As a result of recent increases in oil and gas prices, acquisition prices also have increased, potentially making it more difficult for us to identify and complete acquisitions suitable for us. If NEG Oil & Gas is unable to complete suitable acquisitions, it will be more difficult to replace reserves. In addition, successfully completed acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: • unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of an acquired business; • difficulties in conforming the financial, technical and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of our existing operations; and • diversion of management and other resources. Moreover, the success of any acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including the ability of NEG Oil & Gas to accurately assess the reserves associated with the property, future oil and gas prices and operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors. These assessments are necessarily inexact. As a result, it may not recover the purchase price of a property from the sale of production from the property or recognize an acceptable return from such sales. The risks normally associated with acquisitions are heightened in the current environment, as market prices of oil and gas properties are generally high compared to historical norms and could continue to rise. In addition, NEG Oil & Gas may face greater risks if we acquire properties in areas where we may be less familiar with operating, regulatory and other issues specific to those areas. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future with respect to acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing its production, attracting and retaining quality personnel, implementing new technologies and raising additional capital. NEG Oil & Gas operates in a competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas, integrating new technologies and employing skilled personnel. Many of its competitors possess and employ substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources. Those companies may be willing and able to pay more for producing oil and natural gas properties and prospects than the financial resources of NEG Oil & Gas permits, and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects. Competitors may also enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly. Additionally, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate. If NEG Oil & Gas is not able to fund required capital expenditures with respect to non-operated properties, it may result in a reduction or forfeiture of the interests of NEG Oil & Gas in those properties. Other companies operated approximately 41% of the value of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2005. NEG Oil & Gas has limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated 39 Table of Contents costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of our targeted returns on capital with respect to exploration, exploitation, development or acquisition activities. The success and timing of exploration, exploitation and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that may be outside our control including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of technology. Where we are not the majority owner or operator of a particular oil and natural gas project, we may have no control over the timing or amount of capital expenditures associated with the project. If we are not willing and able to fund required capital expenditures relating to a project when required by the majority owner or operator, our interests in the project may be reduced or forfeited. Our activities are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business. Operations and facilities of NEG Oil & Gas are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to exploration for, and the exploitation, development, production and transportation of, oil and gas, including environmental and safety matters. In addition, certain laws impose strict liability for the costs of remediating contamination at properties that NEG Oil & Gas owns or operates or where wastes generated by our operations have been disposed, regardless of whether such disposal was lawful at the time that it occurred. Applicable laws and regulations include those relating to: • land use restrictions where many of our operations are located; • drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements; • spacing of wells; • emissions into the air; • unitization and pooling of properties; • habitat and endangered species protection, reclamation and remediation; • the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials; • the use of underground storage tanks; • the use of underground injection wells, which affects the disposal of water and other produced liquids from our wells; • safety precautions; • the prevention of oil spills; • releases of contaminants into the environment; • wetlands protection; • the closure of exploration and production facilities; and • operational reporting requirements. Under these laws and regulations, NEG Oil & Gas could be liable for: • governmental sanctions, such as fines, penalties, and injunctive relief; • property and natural resource damages; 40 Table of Contents • releases or discharges of hazardous materials; • well reclamation costs; • oil spill clean-up costs; • other remediation and clean-up costs; • plugging and abandonment costs, which may be particularly high in the case of offshore facilities; • personal injuries; and • other environmental damages. Although NEG Oil & Gas believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations and that its liabilities are not material, we cannot be certain that existing environmental laws or regulations applicable to our operations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some environmental laws and regulations impose strict liability. Strict liability means that in some situations NEG Oil & Gas could be exposed to liability for clean-up costs and other damages as a result of conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or for the conduct of prior operators or other third parties. In addition, we may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, for example by installing and maintaining pollution control devices. Similarly, plugging and abandonment obligations will be substantial and may be more than NEG Oil & Gas has estimated. It is not possible for us to estimate reliably the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters, but they may be material. In addition, our operations could be adversely affected by federal and state laws that require environmental impact studies to be conducted before governmental authorities can take certain actions, including, in some cases, the issuance of permits to us. Environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. Under full cost accounting rules, NEG Oil & Gas may be required to write down the carrying value of properties when oil and gas prices decrease or when there are substantial downward adjustments of estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration results. NEG Oil & Gas uses the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas exploitation, development and exploration activities. Under full cost accounting rules, NEG Oil & Gas performs a “ceiling test.” This test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or “ceiling,” of the book value of oil and gas properties that is equal to the expected after-tax present value of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using prevailing prices on the last day of the relevant period. If the net book value of properties, reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability, exceeds the ceiling, NEG Oil & Gas writes down the book value of the properties. Depending on the magnitude of any future impairments, a ceiling test write down could significantly reduce NEG Oil & Gas’ income or produce a loss. Ceiling test computations use commodity prices prevailing on the last day of the relevant period, making it impossible to predict the timing and magnitude of any future write downs. To the extent finding and development costs increase, NEG Oil & Gas will become more susceptible to ceiling test write downs in low price environments. Changes in the financial condition of any of our large oil and gas purchasers could make it difficult to collect amounts due from those purchasers. For 2005, 68% of our oil and natural gas revenues were generated from sales to six purchasers. A material adverse change in the financial conditions of any these purchasers could adversely impact future revenues and our ability to collect current accounts receivable from such purchasers. Additionally, the loss of any of these purchasers could have an adverse impact on our revenues. 41 Table of Contents Gaming The gaming industry is highly regulated. The gaming authorities and state and municipal licensing authorities have significant control over our operations. Our properties currently conduct licensed gaming operations in Nevada and New Jersey. Various regulatory authorities, including the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, Nevada Gaming Commission and the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, require our properties to hold various licenses and registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals to engage in gaming operations and to meet requirements of suitability. These gaming authorities also control approval of ownership interests in gaming operations. These gaming authorities may deny, limit, condition, suspend or revoke our gaming licenses, registrations, findings of suitability or the approval of any of our ownership interests in any of the licensed gaming operations conducted in Nevada and New Jersey, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, for any cause they may deem reasonable. If we violate gaming laws or regulations that are applicable to us, we may have to pay substantial fines or forfeit assets. If, in the future, we operate or have an ownership interest in casino gaming facilities located outside of Nevada or New Jersey, we may also be subject to the gaming laws and regulations of those other jurisdictions. The sale of alcoholic beverages at our Gaming properties is subject to licensing and regulation by local authorities. Any limitation, condition, suspension or revocation of any such license, and any disciplinary action may, and revocation would, reduce the number of visitors to our casinos to the extent the availability of alcoholic beverages is important to them. Any reduction in our number of visitors will reduce our revenue and cash flow. Rising operating costs for our gaming properties could have a negative impact on our profitability. The operating expenses associated with our gaming properties could increase due to some of the following factors: • our properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may reduce our profitability; • our Nevada properties use significant amounts of water and a water shortage may adversely affect our operations; • some of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and we may incur higher costs or work slow-downs or stoppages due to union activities; and • our reliance on slot machine revenues and the concentration of manufacturing of slot machines in certain companies could impose additional costs on us. We face substantial competition in the gaming industry. The Gaming industry in general, and the markets in which we compete in particular, are highly competitive: • we compete with many world class destination resorts with greater name recognition, different attractions, amenities and entertainment options; • we compete with the continued growth of gaming on Native American tribal lands; • the existence of legalized gambling in other jurisdictions may reduce the number of visitors to our properties; • certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific venues, including race tracks and/or in specific areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers; and • our properties also compete and will in the future compete with all forms of legalized gambling. Many of our competitors have greater financial, selling and marketing, technical and other resources than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors and we may lose market share, which could reduce our revenue and cash flow. 42 Table of Contents Our acquisition of the Flamingo in Laughlin, Nevada and the Traymore site in Atlantic City, New Jersey may not be successful. Our subsidiary, AREP Gaming LLC, through its subsidiaries, AREP Laughlin Corporation and AREP Boardwalk LLC, has entered into an agreement to purchase the Flamingo Hotel & Casino in Laughlin, Nevada and 7.7 acres of land in Atlantic City, New Jersey, formerly known as the Traymore site, from Harrah’s Entertainment for an aggregate purchase price of $170.0 million. AREP Gaming intends to assign the rights to acquire the Flamingo to ACEP. The acquisition of the Flamingo is subject to the satisfaction of several conditions, including obtaining approval of Nevada gaming authorities and we cannot be certain that the condition will be satisfied. We anticipate that payment of the acquisition price will be made from a combination of ACEP’s available cash and borrowing under its senior secured revolving facility. This will reduce cash that otherwise would be available for other purposes and will require additional borrowing by ACEP. It may be some time before we recover our investment in the Flamingo, if we succeed in doing so at all. In addition, ACEP currently plans to spend approximately $40.0 million through 2008 to refurbish rooms, upgrade amenities and acquire new gaming equipment for the Flamingo. Acquisitions generally involve significant risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and corporate culture of the acquired company. We may not successfully manage and integrate the Flamingo’s operations with ours. The benefits from the acquisition of the Flamingo are based on projections and assumptions related to our program to upgrade and refurbish the facilities, as well as recent results. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will realize the anticipated benefits. We will acquire the Atlantic City property through AREP Gaming’s direct subsidiary, AREP Boardwalk. We are seeking financing for the acquisition but cannot guarantee that financing will be available, or that it will be on favorable terms and we may be required to fund the purchase from available cash. The property is largely undeveloped and produces little income. During the development process we will incur substantial costs which will not be recouped unless and until the property becomes income-producing. Development is subject to a variety of governmental approvals, including NJCAA and New Jersey Commission approval should we elect to locate a casino on the site. We cannot be certain that the property will be developed successfully. The Sands has recently incurred operating losses which could result in our determining that, for financial reporting purposes, our investment has been impaired. During 2005, The Sands incurred an operating loss relating to its operations. Although The Sands continues to generate positive cash flow, if The Sands continues to incur losses we may conclude that, for financial reporting purposes, our investment is impaired. If, as a result, we were to write-off our investment, it could adversely affect our results. Creditors of GBH have indicated that they intend to challenge the transactions consummated in July 2004, which, among other things resulted in the transfer of The Sands to ACE Gaming, and intend to attempt to subordinate our claims against GBH Holdings to those of other creditors. We own approximately 77.5% of GBH’s outstanding common stock. GBH’s principal asset is 41.7% of the common stock of Atlantic Coast. On September 29, 2005, GBH filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, we determined that we no longer control GBH under applicable accounting rules and have deconsolidated our investment for financial reporting purposes. Creditors of GBH have indicated that they intend to challenge the transactions in July 2004 that, among other things, resulted in the transfer of The Sands to ACE Gaming, the exchange certain of GBH’s notes for 3% senior secured convertible notes of Atlantic Coast, and, ultimately, our owning 58.3% of the Atlantic Coast shares. The creditors also have indicated that, if they succeed in challenging these transactions, they intend to seek to rescind the July 2004 transactions and attempt to equitably subordinate, in bankruptcy, AREP’s claims against GBH to the claims of such creditors. If such a suit is brought we intend to vigorously defend AREP and its subsidiaries against such claims, however we cannot predict the outcome of the litigation. Real Estate Operations Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in unentitled land, undeveloped land and distressed development properties. These properties involve more risk than properties on which development has been 43 Table of Contents completed. Unentitled land may not be approved for development. These investments do not generate any operating revenue, while costs are incurred to obtain government approvals and develop the properties. Construction may not be completed within budget or as scheduled and projected rental levels or sales prices may not be achieved and other unpredictable contingencies beyond our control could occur. We will not be able to recoup any of such costs until such time as these properties, or parcels thereof, are either disposed of or developed into income-producing assets. We may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of development and rental real estate. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants released on, under, in or from its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. To the extent any such substances are found in or on any property invested in by us, we could be exposed to liability and be required to incur substantial remediation costs. The presence of such substances or the failure to undertake proper remediation may adversely affect the ability to finance, refinance or dispose of such property. We generally conduct a Phase I environmental site assessment on properties in which we are considering investing. A Phase I environmental site assessment involves record review, visual site assessment and personnel interviews, but does not typically include invasive testing procedures such as air, soil or groundwater sampling or other tests performed as part of a Phase II environmental site assessment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these assessments will disclose all potential liabilities or that future property uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or activities at nearby properties will not result in the creation of environmental liabilities with respect to a property. Home Fashion A recent court order may result in our ownership of WPI being reduced to less than 50%. Uncertainties arising from this decision may adversely affect WPI’s operations and prospects and the value of our investment in it. In November and December, 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York rendered a decision in Contrarian Funds Inc. v. WestPoint Stevens, Inc. et al.. and issued orders reversing certain provisions of the bankruptcy court order pursuant to which we acquired our ownership of a majority of the common stock of a newly formed company, WPI. WPI acquired substantially all of the assets of West Point Stevens. We filed a petition for a writ of mandamus requesting that the U.S. Court of Appeals review the District Court’s decision which was denied. Proceedings will continue in the bankruptcy court. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Depending on the implementation of any changes to the bankruptcy court’s order, our percentage of the outstanding shares of common stock of WPI could be reduced to less than 50%, which could result in our losing control of WPI. In addition, if we were to lose control of WPI, it could adversely affect the business and prospects of WPI and the value of our investment in it. In addition, we consolidated the results and balance sheet of WPI as of December 31, 2005 and for the period from the date of acquisition through December 31, 2005. If we were to own less than 50% of the outstanding common stock and lose control of WPI, we would no longer consolidate it and our financial statements could be materially different than as presented as of December 31, 2005 and for the year then ended. WPI recently acquired its business from the former owners through bankruptcy proceedings. We cannot assure you that it will be able to operate profitably. WPI acquired the assets of WestPoint Stevens as part of its bankruptcy proceedings. Certain of the issues that contributed to WestPoint Stevens’ filing for bankruptcy, such as intense industry competition, the inability to produce goods at a cost competitive with overseas suppliers, the increasing prevalence of direct sourcing by principal customers and continued incurrence of overhead costs associated with an enterprise larger than the current business can profitably support, continue to exist and may continue to affect WPI’s business operations and financial condition adversely. In addition, during the protracted bankruptcy proceedings of WestPoint Stevens, several of its customers reduced the volume of business done with WestPoint Stevens. We have installed new management to address these issues, but we cannot assure you that new management will be effective. In the first two months of 2006, the Home Fashion segment experienced an increased rate of negative cash flow from 44 Table of Contents operations. Such negative cash flow was principally due to restructuring actions that had been delayed and which took place in the first two months of 2006. We expect that WPI will continue to operate at a loss during 2006 and 2007, and we cannot assure you that it will be able to operate profitably in the future. WPI may not be able to secure additional financing to meet its future needs. Other than the credit facility provided by AREH which matures on August 7, 2006, WPI has not yet obtained any additional credit facilities and we cannot assure you that it will be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to it. Moreover, the pending litigation relating to the ownership of WPI has hindered the consummation of the rights offering pursuant to which WPI was to raise $92 million in incremental equity and there can be no assurance as to when or if such offering will occur and whether AREP will remain obligated to purchase any additional shares pursuant thereto. In addition, we have not yet ascertained the full extent to which additional capital will be required to retain WPI’s customers and make investments required to attain a competitive cost structure. As a result, we cannot assure you that WPI will be able to obtain the capital that will be required to continue operations or to repay amounts due under the AREH credit facility. From time to time, WPI may explore additional financing methods and other means to make needed investments. Such financing methods could include stock issuance or debt financing. If WPI’s business does not improve, it is likely that this financing would be available, if at all, only on terms that are not advantageous and potentially highly dilutive to existing stockholders of WPI. The loss of any of WPI’s large customers could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. During 2005 and 2004, WPI’s six largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net sales (including net sales by WestPoint Stevens). WPI has experienced a significant decline in net sales to one of its largest customers. Sales to this customer have declined from $202.4 million for 2004 to $51.5 million for 2005 (including net sales by WestPoint Stevens). In addition, many other retailers have indicated that they intend to significantly increase their direct sourcing of home fashion products from foreign sources. The loss of any of WPI’s largest accounts, or a material portion of sales to those accounts, would have an adverse effect upon its business, which could be material. A portion of WPI’s sales are derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. A portion of WPI’s sales is derived from licensed designer brands. The license agreements for WPI’s designer brands generally are for a term of two or three years. Some of the licenses are automatically renewable for additional periods, provided that sales thresholds set forth in the license agreements are met. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s business, which effect could be material. Under certain circumstances, these licenses can be terminated without WPI’s consent due to circumstances beyond WPI’s control. A shortage of the principal raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could force WPI to pay more for those materials and, possibly, cause WPI to increase its prices, which could have an adverse effect on WPI’s operations. Any shortage in the raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could adversely affect its operations. The principal raw materials that WPI uses in the manufacture of its products are cotton of various grades and staple lengths and polyester and nylon in staple and filament form. Since cotton is an agricultural product, its supply and quality are subject to weather patterns, disease and other factors. The price of cotton is also influenced by supply and demand considerations, both domestically and worldwide, and by the cost of polyester. Although WPI has been able to acquire sufficient quantities of cotton for its operations in the past, any shortage in the cotton supply by reason of weather patterns, disease or other factors, or a significant increase in the price of cotton, could adversely affect its operations. The price of man-made fibers, such as polyester and nylon, is influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and costs, petroleum prices, cotton prices and the cost of polymers used in producing these fibers. In 45 Table of Contents particular, the effect of increased energy prices may have a direct impact upon the cost of dye and chemicals, polyester and other synthetic fibers. Any significant prolonged petrochemical shortages could significantly affect the availability of man-made fibers and could cause a substantial increase in demand for cotton. This could result in decreased availability of cotton and possibly increased prices and could adversely affect WPI’s operations. The home fashion industry is highly competitive and WPI’s success depends on WPI’s ability to compete effectively in the market. The home fashion industry is highly competitive. WPI’s future success will, to a large extent, depend on its ability to remain a low-cost producer and to remain competitive. WPI competes with both foreign and domestic companies on, among other factors, the basis of price, quality and customer service. In the home fashion market, WPI competes with many companies, the largest of which is Springs Global US, Inc., a company formed by the merger of Coteminas S.A., a major Brazilian textile producer, with Springs Industries, Inc. WPI’s future success depends on its ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. We cannot assure you of WPI’s ability to compete effectively in any of these areas. Any failure to compete effectively could adversely affect WPI’s sales and, accordingly, its operations. Additionally, the easing of trade restrictions over time has led to growing competition from low priced products imported from Asia and Latin America. The lifting of import quotas in 2005 has accelerated the loss of WPI’s market share. There can be no assurance that the foreign competition will not grow to a level that could have an adverse effect upon WPI ’s ability to compete effectively. WPI intends to increase the percentage of its products that are made overseas. There is no assurance that WPI will be successful in obtaining goods of sufficient quality on a timely basis and on advantageous terms. WPI will be subject to additional risks relating to doing business overseas. WPI intends to increase the percentage of its products that are made overseas and may face additional risks associated with these efforts. Adverse factors that WPI may encounter include: • challenges caused by distance; • language and cultural differences; • legal and regulatory restrictions; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements with overseas suppliers; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability; • potential adverse tax consequences; and • higher costs associated with doing business internationally. There has been consolidation of retailers of WPI’s products that may reduce its profitability. Retailers of consumer goods have become fewer and more powerful over time. As buying power has become more concentrated, pricing pressure on vendors has grown. With the ability to buy imported products directly from foreign sources, retailers’ pricing leverage has increased and also allowed for growth in private label brands that displace and compete with WPI proprietary brands. Retailers’ pricing leverage has resulted in a decline in WPI’s unit pricing and margins and resulted in a shift in product mix to more private label programs. If WPI is unable to diminish the decline in its pricing and margins, it may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If it does not comply with these regulations, it may incur significant costs in the future to become compliant. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge, storage, handling, usage and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes used in, or resulting from, its operations, including potential remediation obligations under those laws and 46 Table of Contents regulations. WPI’s operations are also governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to employee safety and health which, among other things, establish exposure limitations for cotton dust, formaldehyde, asbestos and noise, and which regulate chemical, physical and ergonomic hazards in the workplace. Consumer product safety laws, regulations and standards at the federal and state level govern the manufacture and sale of products by WPI. Although WPI does not expect that compliance with any of these laws and regulations will adversely affect its operations, we cannot assure you that regulatory requirements will not become more stringent in the future or that WPI will not incur significant costs to comply with those requirements. Investments We may not be able to identify suitable investments, and our investments may not result in favorable returns or may result in losses. Our partnership agreement allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities we believe exist outside of our operating businesses. The equity securities in which we may invest may include common stocks, preferred stocks and securities convertible into common stocks, as well as warrants to purchase these securities. The debt securities in which we may invest may include bonds, debentures, notes, or non-rated mortgage-related securities, municipal obligations, bank debt and mezzanine loans. Certain of these securities may include lower rated or non-rated securities which may provide the potential for higher yields and therefore may entail higher risk and may include the securities of bankrupt or distressed companies. In addition, we may engage in various investment techniques, including derivatives, options and futures transactions, foreign currency transactions, “short” sales and leveraging for either hedging or other purposes. We may concentrate our activities by owning a significant or controlling interest in certain investments. We may not be successful in finding suitable opportunities to invest our cash and our strategy of investing in undervalued assets may expose us to numerous risks. Our investments may be subject to significant uncertainties. • Our investments may not be successful for many reasons including, but not limited to: • fluctuation of interest rates; • lack of control in minority investments; • worsening of general economic and market conditions; • lack of diversification; • fluctuation of U.S. dollar exchange rates; and • adverse legal and regulatory developments that may affect particular businesses. We also have engaged in a “short” sale which has, to date, and in the future could result in significant unrealized and realized losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 47 Table of Contents 