Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on June 10, 2013 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Chapter 11 Case. For the duration of our Chapter 11 Case, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Case include the following: 9•our creditors or other third parties may take actions or make decisions that are inconsistent with and detrimental to the plans we believe to be in the best interests of the Company; •we may be unable to obtain court approval with respect to certain matters in the Chapter 11 Case from time to time; •the court may not agree with our objections to positions taken by other parties; •we may not be able to confirm and consummate a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization or may be delayed in doing so;•we may not be able to obtain and maintain normal credit terms with vendors, strategic partners and service providers;•we may not be able to enter into or maintain contracts that are critical to our operations at competitive rates and terms, if at all; and•we may be exposed to risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to (i) terminate or shorten our exclusivity period to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, (ii) appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or (iii) convert the case to a Chapter 7 liquidation case. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events, the positions we take in court, or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 Case could adversely affect our sales and our relationship with our customers, as well as with vendors and our employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 Case is protracted. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 Case, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. If any one or more of these risks materializes, it could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Operating under Chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business will be subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. We must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other things: •engage in certain transactions with our vendors; •buy or sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and •borrow for our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Our employees face uncertainty due to the Chapter 11 Case. As a result of the Chapter 11 Case, our employees are facing uncertainty. A material erosion of our employees' commitment could have a material adverse affect on our business, particularly if the Chapter 11 Case is protracted. The Company's businesses could suffer from a protracted restructuring. The Company's future results are dependent upon the timely and successful filing, confirmation and implementation of a plan of reorganization. If a restructuring is protracted, it could adversely affect the Company's operating results, including its relationships with its employees, vendors, strategic partners and customers. If we experience a protracted reorganization, there is a significant risk that the value of the Company's enterprise would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all stakeholders. We may be subject to claims that will not be discharged in the Chapter 11 Case. The Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation. With a few exceptions primarily relating to environmental claims, all claims that arose prior to the filing of our Chapter 11 Case (i) will be subject to compromise, and/or discharge in the Chapter 11 Case in any plan of reorganization that may be certified, or (ii) will be discharged in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and the terms of the plan of reorganization. However, the aggregate amount of such claims that are not subject to treatment under the plan of reorganization or that are not discharged may be material. We may not have sufficient cash to maintain our operations during Chapter 11 and fund our emergence from the Chapter 11 Case. Because of our weakened financial condition, we will continue to have heightened exposure to, and less ability to withstand, the operating risks that are customary in the industry, such as fluctuations in raw material prices. Any of these factors could result in the need for substantial additional funding. A number of other factors, including our Chapter 11 filing, our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness and the competitive environment we face, adversely affect the availability and terms of funding that might be available to us during, and upon emergence from, our Chapter 11 Case. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to source capital at acceptable rates, on acceptable terms or at all, to fund our current operations and our exit from Chapter 11. An inability to obtain necessary additional funding on acceptable terms 10would have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations, both currently and upon emergence from Chapter 11. Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Case is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. It is probable our common stock will be canceled and that holders of such common stock will not receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments. At this time it is not possible to predict the ultimate effect of the Chapter 11 reorganization on our business, various creditors and security holders, or when it may be possible to emerge from Chapter 11. The Company believes that under any reorganization plan the Company's common stock would likely be substantially diluted or canceled in its entirety and the holders thereof would not be entitled to receive, and would not receive or retain, any property or interest in property on account of such equity interests. In the event of a cancellation of these equity interests, amounts invested by such holders in our outstanding equity securities will not be recoverable. Consequently, our currently outstanding common stock would have no value. Trading prices for our common stock are very volatile and may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders of such securities in the Chapter 11 Case. Accordingly, we urge that extreme caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our equity securities and any of our other securities. Our common stock was delisted from NASDAQ and will not be listed on any other national securities exchange. The Company's common stock was suspended at the opening of business on June 24, 2013 and the Company's securities were removed from listing and registration on NASDAQWe may not be able to re-list our common stock on a national securities exchange, although our securities might begin to trade in the over-the-counter ("OTC") market. The trading of our common stock in the OTC market rather than the NASDAQ may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, securities that trade in the OTC market are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule". Risks of trading in an OTC market. Securities traded in the OTC market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange due to factors such as the reduced number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the reduced number of market makers in the securities, and the reduced number of securities analysts that follow such securities. As a result, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors, parties with whom we have business relationships or third parties with interests in the Chapter 11 Case. If our securities begin trading in the OTC market, in some cases, we may be subject to additional compliance requirements under applicable state laws in the issuance of our securities. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future.The Company temporarily suspended operations at its Vernon, California secondary lead recycling facility and operations may not resume until in or about December 2014.The Company received an order dated April 24, 2013 from the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (“CDTSC”) requiring the Company to temporarily suspend recycling operations at its Vernon, California secondary lead recycling facility, one of the Company's three operating lead recycling facilities in the United States. The CDTSC based its order on two factors: (i) the Vernon Facilities underground storm-water piping system was not in compliance with state requirements, and (ii) furnace emissions posed health risks in excess of applicable standards. On June 12 and July 2, 2013, respectively, the Company successfully challenged CDTSC's required temporary suspension of operations of the Vernon facility obtaining a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction from the Los Angeles Superior Court staying CDTSC's order, thus allowing the Company to resume operations at the Vernon facility.On November 4, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court approved a stipulation between the Company and the CDTSC, pursuant to which the CDTSC dismissed the order for temporary suspension with prejudice and agreed to establish going forward compliance guidelines providing the Company with more certainty regarding its ongoing compliance obligations at the Vernon facility. However, should the pending California Senate Bill 712 or other related pending state legislation be enacted into law, the Company will have until December 31, 2015 as a deadline to obtain a permanent hazardous waste operating permit from the CDTSC. There are no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain that permit or that the regulators will not engage in further attempts to shut down the Vernon facility in the interim pursuant to the proposed legislation or otherwise.On October 18, 2013, the South Coast Air Quality Monitoring District ("SCAQMD") filed a petition seeking the suspension of operations at the Vernon facility for alleged violation of an SCAQMD rule and related furnace control equipment permit conditions until compliance is achieved. The Company contested the SCAQMD's petition. A hearing on the SCAQMD’s petition commenced on December 14, 2013 and continued into calendar 2014. 11On April 11, 2014, as a result of the Vernon facility allegedly exceeding the SCAQMD ambient air standard for lead, the SCAQMD filed a second petition seeking an order that Exide “cease and desist” from violating air quality standards, or in the alternative, to comply with other such conditions and increments of progress which the SCAQMD Hearing Board deems appropriate.On January 10, 2014, the SCAQMD adopted an amended rule that contained new emissions and equipment requirements with varying compliance dates, including an April 10, 2014 deadline that would require the Company to operate the furnaces at the Vernon facility under continuous "negative pressure" ("Rule 1420.1"). In response, the Company initiated two separate related proceedings on February 7, 2014: (i) a Petition for Variance before the SCAQMD Hearing Board, requesting a delay of the negative pressure requirement until December 31, 2014, and (ii) a Writ of Mandamus in Superior Court of Los Angeles County, seeking to invalidate the negative pressure requirement of Rule 1420.1. Additionally, on February 21, 2014, the Company filed a request for a preliminary injunction that would temporarily suspend the April 10, 2014, deadline until such time as the Superior Court could conduct a trial on the Writ of Mandamus.On April 7, 2014, the Los Angeles County Superior Court denied the Company's preliminary injunction. Additionally, on April 8, 2014, the SCAQMD Hearing Board denied the Company's variance request. As a result of these two decisions, the Company suspended operations at the Vernon facility until such time as the Company can design, engineer, permit, install, and test new equipment needed to achieve the new standard under Rule 1420.1.On July 10, 2014 the SCAQMD Hearing Board approved a resolution of the Company's pending administrative matters with the SCAQMD through the issuance of two Orders For Abatement ("Stipulated OAs"). The Stipulated OAs require the Company: (i) to refrain from resuming operations of the Vernon facility furnaces until it installs certain air quality control improvements required to comply with the newly-adopted Rule 1420.1 standards in accordance with SCAQMD issued permits and applicable SCAQMD rules; and (ii) to install those improvements in accordance with an SCAQMD approved dust mitigation plan. Concurrently, in a settlement agreement, the Company agreed to dismiss its Writ of Mandamus legal action. The Company currently estimates the full operation of the furnaces under continuous negative pressure will not occur until after installation of the aforesaid equipment expected to be completed in or about December 2014 should the Company decide to proceed.The Company will need to continue to find alternative sources of lead to ensure adequate supply of this critical raw material component in its products. If the Company is unable to find such sources of lead or if it procures sources of lead at significantly higher cost, such circumstances would result in a material adverse affect on the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.The Company has experienced significant fluctuations in raw material prices, particularly lead, and further changes in the prices of raw materials or in energy costs could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.Lead is the primary material used in the manufacture of the Company’s lead-acid batteries, representing approximately 43.7% of the cost of goods sold. The Company obtains a significant portion of North American lead requirements through the operation of three secondary lead recycling plants and external tolling suppliers which reclaim lead by recycling spent lead-acid batteries. In North America, the Company obtains spent batteries for recycling primarily from the Company’s customers, through Company-owned branch networks, and from outside spent battery collectors. Costs of spent batteries have been quite volatile, decreasing by 3.7% on average in fiscal 2014 as compared with fiscal 2013. In Europe and ROW, the Company obtains a small portion of its lead requirements through the operation of two lead recycling plants. The majority of the Company’s lead requirements in Europe and ROW are obtained from third-party suppliers under annual supply agreements.Other key raw materials and components in the production of batteries include lead oxide, acid, steel, plastics and chemicals, all of which are generally available from multiple sources. The Company has not experienced any material stoppage or disruption in production as a result of non-availability or delays in the availability of raw materials.The Company is subject to fluctuations in exchange rates and other risks associated with its non-U.S. operations which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company has significant manufacturing operations in, and exports to, several countries outside the U.S. Approximately 60.6% of the Company’s net sales for fiscal 2014 were generated in Europe and ROW with the significant majority generated in Euros. Because such a significant portion of the Company’s operation is based overseas, the Company is exposed to foreign currency risk, resulting in uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, and results of operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. The Company invoices foreign sales and service transactions in local currencies and translates these revenues and expenses into U.S. Dollars at average monthly exchange rates. Because a significant portion of the Company’s net sales and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, the depreciation of these foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect the Company’s reported net sales and operating margins. The Company translates its non-U.S. assets and liabilities into U.S. Dollars using current rates as of the balance sheet date. Therefore, foreign currency depreciation against the U.S. Dollar would result in a decrease in the Company’s net investment in foreign subsidiaries.In addition, foreign currency depreciation, particularly depreciation of the Euro, would make it more expensive for the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries to purchase certain raw material commodities that are priced globally in U.S. Dollars, such as 12lead, which is quoted on the London Metals Exchange (“LME”) in U.S. Dollars. The Company does not engage in significant hedging of its foreign currency exposure and cannot assure that it will be able to hedge its foreign currency exposures at a reasonable cost.There are other risks inherent in the Company’s non-U.S. operations, including:•changes in local economic conditions, and disruption of markets; including current sovereign debt challenges in certain European countries;•changes in laws and regulations, including changes in import, export, labor and environmental laws;•exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions; and•unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against American interests.These and other risks may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s non-U.S. operations or on its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company’s liquidity is affected by the seasonality of its business. Warm winters and cool summers adversely affect the Company.The Company sells a disproportionate share of its automotive aftermarket batteries during the fall and early winter. Resellers buy automotive batteries during these periods so that they will have sufficient inventory for cold weather periods. This seasonality increases the Company’s working capital requirements and makes it more sensitive to fluctuations in the availability of liquidity. Unusually cold winters or hot summers may accelerate battery failure and increase demand for automotive replacement batteries. Mild winters and cool summers may have the opposite affect. As a result, if the Company’s sales are reduced by an unusually warm winter or cool summer, it may not be possible for the Company to recover these sales in later periods. Further, if the Company’s sales are adversely affected by the weather, it cannot make offsetting cost reductions to protect the Company’s liquidity and gross margins in the short-term because a large portion of the Company’s manufacturing and distribution costs are fixed. These circumstances could result in a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.Decreased demand in the industries in which the Company operates may adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company’s financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive, material handling, and telecommunications industries which, in turn, are generally dependent on the U.S. and global economies. As a result, economic and other factors adversely affecting production by OEM's and their customers’ spending could adversely impact the Company’s business. Relatively modest declines in customer purchases from the Company could have a significant adverse impact on its profitability because the Company has substantial fixed production costs. If the Company’s OEM and large aftermarket customers reduce their inventory levels, or reduce their orders, the Company’s performance would be significantly adversely impacted. In this economic environment, the Company cannot predict future production rates or inventory levels or underlying economic factors. Continued uncertainty and unexpected fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial conditions, cash flows, or results of operations.The remaining portion of the Company’s battery sales are of aftermarket batteries. The factors influencing demand for automotive replacement batteries include: (i) the number of vehicles in use; (ii) average battery life; (iii) the average age of vehicles and their operating environment; (iv) weather conditions; (v) population growth; and (vi) overall economic conditions. Any significant adverse change in any one of these factors may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.The loss of the Company’s primary supplier of polyethylene battery separators would have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company uses both polyethylene and AGM battery separators. There are a number of suppliers from whom the Company purchases AGM battery separators. Polyethylene battery separators are purchased primarily from one supplier pursuant to a supply agreement expiring in fiscal 2016. There is currently no second source that could readily provide the volume of certain of its polyethylene separators used by the Company. As a result, any major disruption in supply from the Company’s primary supplier of certain polyethylene separators would have a material adverse impact on the Company.13Many of the industries in which the Company operates are cyclical.The Company’s operating results are affected by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which its major customer groups operate. Any significant decline in demand for replacement batteries for automobiles, light trucks, or sport utility vehicles could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations of the Company’s Transportation segments. To a lesser extent, a prolonged decline in the demand for new automobiles, light trucks or sport utility vehicles could also have an adverse impact on these segments. A weak capital expenditure environment in the telecommunications, uninterruptible power systems or electric industrial forklift truck markets could have a material adverse affect on the business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations of the Company’s Industrial Energy segments.The Company is subject to pricing pressure from its larger customers.The Company faces significant pricing pressures in all of its business segments from its larger customers. Because of their purchasing volume, the Company’s larger customers can influence market participants to compete on price and other terms. Such customers also use their buying power to negotiate lower prices. If the Company is not able to offset price reductions resulting from these pressures by improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.The Company faces increasing competition and pricing pressure from other companies in its industries, and if the Company is unable to compete effectively with these competitors, the Company’s sales and profitability could be adversely affected.The Company competes with a number of major domestic and international manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. Due to excess capacity in some sectors of its industry and consolidation among industrial purchasers, the Company has been subjected to continued and significant pricing pressures. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation, service, and warranty. In addition, the Company is experiencing heightened competitive pricing pressure as Asian producers, which are able to employ labor at significantly lower costs than producers in the U.S. and Western Europe, expand their export capacity and increase their marketing presence in the Company’s major markets. If the Company is unable to compete effectively with these competitors, its sales and profitability could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.If the Company is not able to develop new products or improve upon its existing products on a timely basis, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be adversely affected.The Company believes that its future success depends, in part, on the ability to develop, on a timely basis, new technologically advanced products or improve on the Company’s existing products in innovative ways that meet or exceed its customer's expectations. Maintaining the Company’s market position will require continued investment in capital assets, research and development, and sales and marketing. Industry standards, customer expectations, or other products may emerge that could render one or more of the Company’s products less desirable or obsolete. The Company may be unable to make significant investments in product research & development and unsuccessful in making the technological advances necessary to develop new products or improve its existing products to maintain its market position. If any of these events occur, they could cause decreases in sales and have an adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company may be adversely affected by the instability and uncertainty in the world financial markets and the global economy, and uncertainty around potential terrorist activities against global companies.Unfavorable changes in global economic conditions, including the current sovereign debt issues in certain European countries as well as tightening credit markets, inflation or recession may result in consumers, businesses and governments deferring or lowering purchases of the Company’s products in the future. In addition, terrorist activities may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. These economic conditions and uncertainty also may impact the ability of the Company’s customers to purchase the Company’s products and services. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, the Company’s ability to meet customer’s demands depends, in part, on the Company’s ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from its suppliers. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the global economic conditions, or terrorist attacks, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies. If such economic conditions persist, or terrorist attacks occur, they could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.14The Company may be unable to successfully implement its business strategy, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company’s ability to achieve its business and financial objectives is subject to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. For example, the Company may not be successful in increasing its manufacturing and distribution efficiency through productivity, process improvements and cost reduction initiatives. Further, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits of these improvements and initiatives within the time frames the Company currently expects. In addition, the Company may not be successful in resuming operations at its Vernon, California recycling facility or maintaining or increasing the Company’s percentage of captive arrangements and spent battery collections, which would require the Company to purchase lead on the open market and leaving the Company exposed to fluctuations in the price of lead. Any failure to successfully implement the Company’s business strategy could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations, and could further impair the Company’s ability to make certain strategic capital expenditures.The Company is subject to costly regulation in relation to environmental and occupational, health and safety matters, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Throughout the world, the Company manufactures, distributes, recycles, and otherwise uses large amounts of potentially hazardous materials, especially lead and acid. As a result, the Company is subject to a substantial number of costly regulations. In particular, the Company is required to comply with increasingly stringent requirements of federal, state, and local environmental, occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including those governing (i) emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions; (ii) the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste materials; and (iii) the cleanup of contaminated properties and human health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. The Company could also incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or costs to upgrade or replace existing equipment, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits required at its facilities. In addition, many of the Company’s current and former facilities are located on properties with histories of industrial or commercial operations. Because some environmental laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup upon any of the current or former owners or operators, regardless of fault, the Company could become liable for the cost of investigating or remediating contamination at these properties if contamination requiring such activities is discovered in the future. There is also inherent difficulty in assessing the Company’s potential liability due to the large number of other potentially responsible parties. For example, a demand for the total cleanup costs of a landfill used by many entities may be asserted by the government using joint and several liability theories. Although the Company believes that there is a reasonable basis in law to believe that it will ultimately be responsible for only its share of these remediation costs, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail on these claims. In addition, the scope of remedial costs or other environmental injuries are highly variable, and estimating these costs involves complex legal, scientific and technical judgments. The Company may become obligated to pay material remediation-related costs at its closed Tampa, Florida facility in the amount of approximately $13.0 million to $20.0 million, and at the Columbus, Georgia facility in the amount of approximately $6.0 million to $8.5 million.The Company cannot be certain that it has been, or will at all times be, in complete compliance with all environmental requirements, or that the Company will not incur additional material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts it has reserved. Private parties, including current or former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against the Company due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by it, or contained in its products, especially lead. Environmental requirements are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements or their enforcement may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. The Company has made and will continue to make expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. These requirements, responsibilities and associated expenditures, if they continue to increase, could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. While the Company’s costs to defend and settle claims arising under environmental laws in the past have not been material, the Company cannot provide assurance that this will remain so in the future.On November 12, 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) published new lead emissions standards under the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”), which became effective on January 12, 2009. The new standards further restrict lead emissions by reducing the off-site concentration standards for lead in air from 1.5 micrograms per cubic meter to 0.15 micrograms per cubic meter. The Company believes that the new standards could impact a number of its U.S. facilities. Under the Clean Air Act (“CAA”), publication by the EPA of these ambient air quality standards initiates a process by which the states develop rules implementing the standards. Recently, some states have accelerated their implementation and the Company is working with these states to meet their requirements. Although the final impact on the Company’s operations cannot be reasonably determined at the current time, the Company believes that the financial impact of compliance with these 15lead emissions standards on its U.S. facilities will be funded through normal operations. Non-compliance with these standards could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.On January 5, 2012, the EPA passed the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (“NESHAP”) for secondary lead smelting. The final regulations include limits for lead and other fugitive emissions, particularly at the Company’s lead recycling facilities, as well as additional testing and monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. Although the Company currently believes a majority of these requirements will be met through efforts to attain compliance with NAAQS standards, our failure to attain compliance with NESHAP could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.On January 17, 2012, the City of Frisco, Texas initiated actions that could have prevented the Company from proceeding with projects designed to comply with certain NAAQS implementation requirements related to the Company’s Frisco, Texas recycling facility and that could have imposed an involuntary closure of the facility. The Company contested the City’s actions, and subsequently reached a settlement with the City in June 2012 whereby the Company agreed to sell and the City agreed to buy certain land around the Company’s facility for a total purchase price of $45.0 million in return for the Company’s agreement to cease operations at the site on or before December 31, 2012, with which the Company has complied. Receipt of the proceeds depends, in part, on the Company receiving state certification for its remedial activities on the parcel being sold, as well as agreement with state environmental regulators on the scope of remedial activities on an adjoining parcel used by the Company.We are subject to recently adopted SEC disclosure obligations relating to "conflict minerals" (columbite-tantalite, cassiterite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold) that are sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjacent countries. Complying with these requirements will require us to incur additional costs, including the costs to determine the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products and may require that we modify our processes or products. As a result, we may choose to modify the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials in our products. In addition, we may face reputational and regulatory risks if the information that we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate, or our process in obtaining that information does not fulfill the SEC's requirements. We have a formal policy with respect to the use of conflict minerals in our products that is intended to minimize, if not eliminate, conflict minerals sourced from the covered countries to the extent that we are unable to document that they have been obtained from conflict-free sources.Regulation and legislation adopted to address possible global climate change could increase the Company’s costs of operation and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Recently, there has been an increasing focus on whether emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” including carbon dioxide, may be contributing to certain atmospheric and other climatic changes. Legislative and regulatory measures directed at limiting the emissions of greenhouse gases and other possible causes of climate change are in various stages of discussions or implementation in a number of countries in which the Company operates. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the United States, and international treaties to combat climate change could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials and energy sources such as electricity, natural gas and fossil fuels, all of which may result in higher manufacturing and distribution costs for the Company. The Company’s facilities may also be subject to additional regulation under future climate change policies. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases could result in significant changes to the Company’s facilities and operations and result in an increased cost of conducting business. If the Company is unable to manage the financial risks or otherwise recover costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements, if any, it could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company may be adversely affected by legal proceedings to which the Company is, or may become, a party.The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal proceedings which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.In May 2013, one of the Company's Spanish subsidiaries received notice of an investigation by the European Commission of alleged anticompetitive behavior relating to procurement practices of several European lead recyclers. The Company is currently unable to assess the ultimate outcome of the Commission's investigation, the entity or entities that could be affected, or the amount of any fines that may result.The Company's Netherlands subsidiary, Exide Technologies B.V. (“BV”), received notice from the Dutch competition authorities that it was the subject of an investigation of a local trade association’s members in the traction/Motive Power batteries segment. On July 9 and July 16, 2013, the authorities conducted an on-site inspection and requested additional information and documentation, which the Company has provided. In December 2013, the Company submitted to the Dutch Competition Authority (the "ACM") a leniency application for immunity or reduction of fines that might be imposed as a result of the investigation. The Company was recently notified by the ACM of a provisional grant of leniency in respect of certain 16conduct and that the Company did not receive provisional leniency for certain other conduct. As required under the ACM's leniency program, the Company continues to cooperate with the Dutch authority. The ACM has not issued a statement of charges to the Company or its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the precise scope and time period at issue, as well as the final outcome of the Netherlands investigation, remains uncertain. In connection with BV’s cooperation with the above-described investigation, the Company discovered activities also in different segments of its Industrial Energy division in Austria, Belgium and Germany that appeared to have occurred in prior years that did not conform to the Company’s internal policies. Upon discovery of these facts, the Company commenced an internal investigation led by independent outside counsel. While a majority of the activities had ceased prior to the initiation of the internal investigation, the Company promptly stopped any remaining ongoing conduct. The Company brought the matter to the attention of the appropriate competition authorities, and, in all affected jurisdictions, the Company has been cooperating with them in further information gathering. As a result of this action, the Company has been granted conditional immunity by regulators in Austria, Germany and Belgium. Additionally, the authority in Austria has decided that the actions would likely have fallen outside any applicable statute of limitations period and the authority has advised that it does not intend to pursue an investigation at this stage. The grants of immunity in Belgium and Germany, which are conditioned on factors that include the Company’s continued cooperation with authorities, should eliminate any governmental fines and penalties that could result if the reported conduct is found to violate applicable law in such jurisdictions. Should immunity be revoked, these investigations could result in significant penalties.Further, even with the grants of conditional immunity in Austria, Germany, and Belgium, the Company might be subject to disputes with private parties concerning alleged damages that are claimed to be a result of the Company’s prior conduct. While the Company believes it would have defenses to any adverse allegations in private actions and would intend to vigorously defend itself in any such actions, litigation of this type is inherently uncertain, costly, and complex, and the Company cannot be certain that it would prevail. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the outcome of the Netherlands investigation or any private party disputes would not have a material adverse affect on the business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations of the Company, despite the fact the Company has been granted conditional immunity in Austria, Germany, and Belgium, and continues to cooperate with the applicable regulatory authorities.Work stoppages or other labor issues at the Company’s facilities or its customers’ or suppliers’ facilities could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.At March 31, 2014, approximately 20.0% of the Company’s hourly employees in the Americas and many of its non-U.S. employees were unionized. It is likely that a significant portion of the Company’s workforce will remain unionized for the foreseeable future. It is also possible that the portion of the Company's workforce that is unionized may increase in the future. Contracts covering approximately 3.2% of the Company's U.S. hourly employees expire in fiscal 2015, and the remainder thereafter. In addition, contracts covering most of the Company’s union employees in Europe and ROW expire on various dates through fiscal 2015. Although the Company believes that its relations with employees are generally good, if conflicts develop between the Company and its employees’ unions in connection with the renegotiation of these contracts or otherwise, work stoppages or other labor disputes could result. A work stoppage at one or more of the Company’s plants, or a material increase in its costs due to unionization activities, may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Work stoppages at the facilities of the Company’s customers or suppliers may also negatively affect the Company’s business. If any of the Company’s significant customers experience a material work stoppage, the customer may halt or limit the purchase of the Company’s products. This could require the Company to shut down or significantly reduce production at facilities relating to those products. Moreover, if any of the Company’s suppliers experience a work stoppage, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if an alternative source of supply is not readily available.The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2014, the Company had total indebtedness, including capital leases, of approximately $308.0 million, excluding amounts included in liabilities subject to compromise of $788.4 million. The Company's level of indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it could:•limit the Company's ability to borrow money to fund its working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements;•limit the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and future business opportunities;•make the Company more vulnerable to a downturn in its business or in the economy;•place the Company at a disadvantage relative to some of its competitors, who may be less highly leveraged; and•require a substantial portion of the Company's cash flow from operations to be used for debt payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes.17One or a combination of these factors could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Subject to restrictions in its DIP Credit Agreement, the Company may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks associated with its already substantial indebtedness.Restrictive covenants limit the Company's ability to operate its business and to pursue its business strategies, and its failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of its indebtedness.The DIP Credit Agreement contain covenants that limit or restrict the Company's ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to its growth strategy or otherwise important to the Company. The DIP Credit Agreement, limits or restricts, among other things, the Company's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to:•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;•pay dividends or make distributions on the Company's capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments;•purchase or redeem stock or subordinated indebtedness;•issue stock of the Company's subsidiaries;•make investments and extend credit;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•transfer and sell assets;•affect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Company's assets;•engage in transactions with affiliates; and•create liens on the Company's assets to secure debt.In addition, the DIP asset-based credit facility ("DIP ABL") requires the Company to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds the Company receives from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. The Company's ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond its control.Any breach of the covenants in the DIP Credit Agreement could cause a default under the Company's DIP Credit Agreement and other debt, which would restrict the Company's ability to borrow under its DIP Credit Agreement thereby significantly impacting the Company's liquidity which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. If there were an event of default under any of the Company's debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. The Company's assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under its outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, the Company is unable to repay, refinance or restructure its indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, its senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under the DIP Credit Agreement.The Company’s ability to recognize the benefits of deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income.The Company recognizes the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when realization of the tax benefit is considered to be more likely than not. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income. Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecasted income of each legal entity and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction. To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from the Company's estimates, the ability of the Company to realize the deferred tax assets could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws could limit the Company's ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented by its deferred tax assets. As of March 31, 2014, the Company’s net current and long-term deferred tax assets were $16.3 million and $116.7 million, respectively.Negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of the Company's operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in the Company's valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax reserves on the Company's statement of financial position that could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Additionally, changes in tax laws in the U.S. or in other countries where the Company has significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities on the Company's consolidated statement of financial position and tax expense. The Company is also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Negative results from one or more such tax audits could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.18The Company is subject to regulation of its international operations that could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Due to the Company’s global operations, it is subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where it can do business, what information or products it can supply to certain countries and what information it can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws, which are complex and often times difficult to interpret and apply, may result in severe criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.Any restructuring activities that the Company may undertake may not achieve the benefits anticipated and could result in additional unanticipated costs, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.The Company regularly evaluates its existing operations, production capacity and business efficiencies and, as a result of such evaluations, the Company may undertake restructuring activities within its businesses. These restructuring plans may involve higher costs or longer timetables than the Company anticipates and could result in substantial costs related to severance and other employee-related matters, litigation risks and expenses, and other costs. These restructuring activities may not result in improvements in future financial performance. If the Company is unable to realize the benefits of any restructuring activities or appropriately structure its businesses to meet market conditions, the restructuring activities could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.19CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBORPROVISION OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995Except for historical information, this report may be deemed to contain “forward-looking” statements. The Company is including this cautionary statement for the express purpose of availing itself of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (i) projections of revenues, cost of raw materials, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, capital expenditures, growth prospects, dividends, the a of currency translations, capital structure, and other financial items, (ii) statements of plans and objectives of the Company or its management or Board of Directors, including the introduction of new products, or estimates or predictions of actions by customers, suppliers, competitors or regulating authorities, (iii) statements of future economic performance, and (iv) statements of assumptions, such as the prevailing weather conditions in the Company’s market areas, underlying other statements and statements about the Company or its business.Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following general factors such as: (i) the ability of the Company to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate the Chapter 11 plan of reorganization, (ii) the potential adverse impact of the Chapter 11 filing on the Company's liquidity and operations and the risks associated with operating businesses under Chapter 11 protection, (iii) the ability of Exide to comply with the terms of the DIP financing facility, (iv) the Company's ability to obtain additional financing, (v) the Company's ability to retain key management and employees, (vi) customer response to the Chapter 11 filing, (vii) the risk factors or uncertainties listed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in connection with the Company's Chapter 11 filing, (viii) the fact that lead, a major constituent in most of the Company’s products, experiences significant fluctuations in market price and is a hazardous material that may give rise to costly environmental and safety claims, (ix) the Company’s ability to implement and fund business strategies based on current liquidity, (x) the Company’s ability to realize anticipated efficiencies and avoid additional unanticipated costs related to its restructuring activities, (xi) the cyclical nature of the industries in which the Company operates and the impact of current adverse economic conditions on those industries, (xii) unseasonable weather (warm winters and cool summers) which adversely affects demand for automotive and some industrial batteries, (xiii) the Company’s substantial debt and debt service requirements which may restrict the Company’s operational and financial flexibility, as well as imposing significant interest and financing costs, (xiv) the litigation proceedings to which the Company is subject, the results of which could have a material adverse affect on the Company and its business, (xv) the realization of the tax benefits of the Company’s net operating loss carry forwards, which is dependent upon future taxable income, (xvi) competitiveness of the battery markets in the Americas and Europe, (xvii) risks involved in foreign operations such as disruption of markets, changes in import and export laws, currency restrictions, currency exchange rate fluctuations and possible terrorist attacks against U.S. interests, (xviii) the ability to acquire goods and services and/or fulfill later needs at budgeted costs, (xix) general economic conditions, (xx) the Company’s ability to successfully pass along increased material costs to its customers, (xxi) recently adopted U.S. lead emissions standards and the implementation of such standards by applicable states, and (xxii) the Company’s ability to resume operations at its Vernon, California recycling facility.The Company cautions each reader to carefully consider those factors herein above set forth and the acknowledgments contained in the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such factors and statements have, in some instances, affected and in the future could affect the ability of the Company to achieve its projected results and may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K.20Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.