Item 1A. Risk Factors.Risks Relating to Our StructureOur general partner and its control person could exercise their influence over us to your detriment.Mr. Icahn, through affiliates, owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, and approximately 92.6% of our outstanding depositary units as of December 31, 2011, and, as a result, has the ability to influence many aspects of our operations and affairs. Icahn Enterprises GP also is the general partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings.In addition, if Mr. Icahn were to sell, or otherwise transfer, some or all of his interests in us to an unrelated party or group, a change of control could be deemed to have occurred under the terms of the indenture governing our senior notes, which would require us to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of repurchase and (ii) our senior unsecured variable rate convertible notes whereby each holder would have the option to require all or a portion of their notes to be repurchased in cash by us. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes.We have engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions with our affiliates.14We have invested and may in the future invest in entities in which Mr. Icahn also invests. We also have purchased and may in the future purchase entities or investments from him or his affiliates. Although Icahn Enterprises GP has never received fees in connection with our investments, our partnership agreement allows for the payment of these fees. Mr. Icahn may pursue other business opportunities in industries in which we compete and there is no requirement that any additional business opportunities be presented to us. We continuously identify, evaluate and engage in discussions concerning potential investments and acquisitions, including potential investments in and acquisitions of affiliates of Mr. Icahn. There cannot be any assurance that any potential transactions that we consider will be completed.The market for our securities may be volatile.The market for our equity securities may be subject to disruptions that could cause substantial volatility in their prices. In general, the recent global economic crisis has caused substantial market volatility and unrest. Any such disruptions or future volatility may adversely affect the value of your securities.Future cash distributions to our unitholders, if any, can be affected by numerous factors.While we made cash distributions in each of the four quarters of fiscal 2011, the payment of future distributions will be determined by the board of directors of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, quarterly, based on a review of a number of factors, including those described below and other factors that it deems relevant at the time that declaration of a distribution is considered.Our ability to pay distributions will depend on numerous factors, including the availability of adequate cash flow from operations; the proceeds, if any, from divestitures; our capital requirements and other obligations; restrictions contained in our financing arrangements; and our issuances of additional equity and debt securities. The availability of cash flow in the future depends as well upon events and circumstances outside our control, including prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and similar factors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions or as to the timing of any distribution. If distributions are made, there can be no assurance that holders of depositary units may not be required to recognize taxable income in excess of cash distributions made in respect of the period in which a distribution is made.Holders of our depositary units have limited voting rights, rights to participate in our management and control of us.Our general partner manages and operates Icahn Enterprises. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of our outstanding depositary units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Holders of depositary units have no right to elect the general partner on an annual or other continuing basis, and our general partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the outstanding depositary units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt securities. As a result, holders of depositary units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities.Holders of depositary units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets.We conduct our businesses through Icahn Enterprises Holdings in several states. Maintenance of limited liability will require compliance with legal requirements of those states. We are the sole limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have not clearly been established in several states. If it were determined that Icahn Enterprises Holdings has been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute or the possession or exercise of the right by the partnership, as limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings, to remove its general partner, to approve certain amendments to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement or to take other action pursuant to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement, constituted “control” of Icahn Enterprises Holdings' business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, Icahn Enterprises and/or unitholders, under certain circumstances, might be held personally liable for Icahn Enterprises Holdings' obligations to the same extent as our general partner. Further, under the laws of certain states, Icahn Enterprises might be liable for the amount of distributions made to Icahn Enterprises by Icahn Enterprises Holdings.Holders of our depositary units may also have to repay Icahn Enterprises amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to holders of our depositary units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date.15Additionally, under Delaware law an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations, if any, of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him or her at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement.To service our indebtedness and pay distributions with respect to our depositary units, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay distributions with respect to our depositary units and to fund operations depends on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.Our current businesses and businesses that we acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Approximately $1.2 billion of indebtedness will come due in the three-year period ending December 31, 2014, which includes interest on our senior notes, and principal and interest on our convertible notes and mortgages payable. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.We are a holding company and depend on the businesses of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations.We are a holding company. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency obligations and other short-term investments, our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Moreover, if we make significant investments in operating businesses, it is likely that we will reduce the liquid assets at Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings in order to fund those investments and the ongoing operations of our subsidiaries and in the Investment Funds. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make distributions with respect to depositary units likely will depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries, returns on our interests in the Investment Funds and the payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise.The operating results of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us and distributions and intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to us may be restricted by applicable law or covenants contained in debt agreements and other agreements to which these subsidiaries may be subject or enter into in the future. The terms of certain debt agreements of our subsidiaries, or other entities in which we own equity, restrict dividends, distributions or loans to us. To the degree any distributions and transfers are impaired or prohibited, our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions on our depositary units will be limited.We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt.During fiscal 2010, we issued $1,050 million aggregate principal amount of 7.750% senior notes due 2016, or the 2016 Notes, and $1,450 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due 2018, or the 2018 Notes (and, together with the 2016 Notes, referred to herein as the Initial Notes) in a private placement not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. On January 17, 2012 and February 6, 2012, we issued an aggregate of $700 million principal amount of the 2018 Notes, or the Additional 2018 Notes, in private placements not registered under the Securities Act. The Additional 2018 Notes constitute the same series of securities as the 2018 Notes for purposes of the indenture governing the notes and will vote together on all matters with such series. The Additional 2018 Notes have substantially identical terms as the 2018 Notes. The Initial Notes and Additional 2018 Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of January 15, 2010 by us and Icahn Enterprises Finance Corp., or Icahn Enterprises Finance, as co-issuer. The proceeds from the sale of the Initial Notes were used in part to repay the existing senior unsecured 7.125% notes due 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and the senior unsecured 8.125% notes due 2012, or the 2012 Notes. The proceeds from the sale of the Additional 2018 Notes will be used for general corporate purposes. We and Icahn Enterprises Holdings may incur additional indebtedness if we comply with certain financial tests contained in the indentures that govern our senior notes. However, our subsidiaries other than Icahn Enterprises Holdings are not subject to any of the covenants contained in the indentures governing our senior notes. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current levels, the related risks that we, and they, now face could intensify. In addition, under the indenture governing our senior notes, certain important events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a change of control.As of December 31, 2011, based on covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes, we were permitted to incur approximately $1.3 billion in additional indebtedness. This amount does not factor in the Additional 2018 Notes issued on 16January 17, 2012 and February 6, 2012 as noted above.Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under any of our debt instruments, including the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition.If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities.We may be subject to the pension liabilities of our affiliates.Mr. Icahn, through certain affiliates, owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP and approximately 92.6% of our outstanding depositary units as of December 31, 2011. Applicable pension and tax laws make each member of a “controlled group” of entities, generally defined as entities in which there is at least an 80% common ownership interest, jointly and severally liable for certain pension plan obligations of any member of the controlled group. These pension obligations include ongoing contributions to fund the plan, as well as liability for any unfunded liabilities that may exist at the time the plan is terminated. In addition, the failure to pay these pension obligations when due may result in the creation of liens in favor of the pension plan or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, against the assets of each member of the controlled group.As a result of the more than 80% ownership interest in us by Mr. Icahn's affiliates, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the pension liabilities of all entities in which Mr. Icahn has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 80%. One such entity, ACF Industries LLC, is the sponsor of several pension plans. All the minimum funding requirements of the Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, for these plans have been met as of December 31, 2011. If the plans were voluntarily terminated, they would be underfunded by approximately $112 million. These results are based on the most recent information provided by the plans' actuaries. These liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. As members of the controlled group, we would be liable for any failure of ACF to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of the ACF pension plans. In addition, other entities now or in the future within the controlled group that includes us may have pension plan obligations that are, or may become, underfunded and we would be liable for any failure of such entities to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of such plans.The current underfunded status of the ACF pension plans requires ACF to notify the PBGC of certain “reportable events,” such as if we cease to be a member of the ACF controlled group, or if we make certain extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions. The obligation to report could cause us to seek to delay or reconsider the occurrence of such reportable events.Starfire Holding Corporation, or Starfire, which is 100% owned by Mr. Icahn, has undertaken to indemnify us and our subsidiaries from losses resulting from any imposition of certain pension funding or termination liabilities that may be imposed on us and our subsidiaries or our assets as a result of being a member of the Icahn controlled group. The Starfire indemnity (which does not extend to pension liabilities of our subsidiaries that would be imposed on us as a result of our interest in these subsidiaries and not as a result of Mr. Icahn and his affiliates more than 80% ownership interest in us) provides, among other things, that so long as such contingent liabilities exist and could be imposed on us, Starfire will not make any distributions to its stockholders that would reduce its net worth to below $250 million. Nonetheless, Starfire may not be able to fund its indemnification obligations to us.We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company.Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in companies in which we own less than a 50% interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies.In order not to become an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the 17value of our investments and structure transactions with an eye toward the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company.We may become taxable as a corporation.We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income and deductions to our partners. However, the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership for past years as well as future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income, which includes interest, dividends, oil and gas revenues, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. We believe that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to structure our business in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income this year and in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such structuring will be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of more than 10% of non-qualifying income. If less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, we may be subject to corporate tax on our net income, at a Federal rate of up to 35% plus possible state taxes. Further, if less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income for past years, we may be subject to corporate level tax plus interest and possibly penalties. In addition, if we register under the Investment Company Act, it is likely that we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The cost of paying federal and possibly state income tax, either for past years or going forward could be a significant liability and would reduce our funds available to make distributions to holders of units, and to make interest and principal payments on our debt securities. To meet the qualifying income test we may structure transactions in a manner which is less advantageous than if this were not a consideration, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions.From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. These proposals have included taxing publicly traded partnerships engaged in the Investment segment, such as us, as corporations and introducing substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income, which could make it more difficult or impossible to for us to meet the exception that allows publicly traded partnerships generating qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is unclear when or if such legislation would be introduced, whether or not such legislation would be enacted, what specific provisions would be included or what the effective date would be, and as a result the ultimate impact on us of such legislation is uncertain. It is possible that if carried interest legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation.Holders of depositary units may be required to pay tax on their share of our income even if they did not receive cash distributions from us.Because we are treated as a partnership for income tax purposes, holders of units are generally required to pay federal income tax, and, in some cases, state or local income tax, on the portion of our taxable income allocated to them, whether or not such income is distributed. Accordingly, it is possible that holders of depositary units may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income, or even equal to their tax liability on the portion of our income allocated to them. If we discover significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or at any recently acquired entity, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the market price of our depositary units or our ability to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ.Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our 18reputation and operating results would be harmed. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention of those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting.To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, that could affect our ability to remain listed on NASDAQ. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our depositary units or the rating of our debt.Since we are a limited partnership, you may not be able to pursue legal claims against us in U.S. federal courts.We are a limited partnership organized under the laws of the state of Delaware. Under the federal rules of civil procedure, you may not be able to sue us in federal court on claims other than those based solely on federal law, because of lack of complete diversity. Case law applying diversity jurisdiction deems us to have the citizenship of each of our limited partners. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, it may not be possible for you to attempt to sue us in a federal court because we have citizenship in all 50 U.S. states and operations in many states. Accordingly, you will be limited to bringing any claims in state court.Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest.Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by Mr. Icahn and his affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved.We may not realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions.We may expand our existing businesses if appropriate opportunities are identified, as well as use our established businesses as a platform for additional acquisitions in the same or related areas. Any such acquisition, if consummated, could involve risks not presently faced by us. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition.Risks Relating to Our BusinessGeneralIn addition to the following risk factors specific to each of our businesses, all of our businesses are subject to the effects of the following:•the threat of terrorism;•loss of any of our or our subsidiaries' key personnel;•the unavailability, as needed, of additional financing; and•the unavailability of insurance at acceptable rates.Global economic conditions may have adverse impacts on our businesses and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, consumer interest rates, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level and availability of mortgage refinancing, and commodity prices, may generally adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Recessionary economic cycles, higher and protracted unemployment rates, increased fuel and other energy and commodity costs, rising costs of transportation and increased tax rates can have a material adverse impact on our businesses, and may adversely affect demand for sales of our businesses' products, or the costs of materials and services utilized in their operations. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations and our cash flows. 19InvestmentOur Investment segment may be materially and negatively affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally.There is significant risk that conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally could deteriorate and experience volatility and illiquidity and these conditions could continue for a significant period of time. In the event that some or all of these conditions occur, the Investment Funds could be materially and adversely affected in many different ways. Furthermore, difficult market conditions may also increase the risk of default with respect to debt investments held by the Investment Funds. Many other factors beyond the control of our Investment segment may adversely affect the Investment Funds, including, without limitation, rising interest rates, inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty.The historical financial information for our Investment segment is not necessarily indicative of its future performance.The financial results of our Investment segment are primarily driven by the performance of the Investment Funds and our interests therein. The historical consolidated financial information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not indicative of the future financial results of our Investment segment. In particular, with respect to the historical returns of our Investment segment:•past favorable market conditions and profitable investment opportunities may not occur in the future; and•future returns may be affected by the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular fund invests.Successful execution of the Investment Funds' activist investment activities involves many risks, certain of which are outside of our control.The success of the Investment Funds' investment strategy may require, among other things: (i) that our Investment segment properly identify companies whose securities prices can be improved through corporate and/or strategic action or successful restructuring of their operations; (ii) that the Investment Funds acquire sufficient securities of such companies at a sufficiently attractive price; (iii) that the Investment Funds avoid triggering anti-takeover and regulatory obstacles while aggregating their positions; (iv) that management of portfolio companies and other security holders respond positively to our proposals; and (v) that the market price of portfolio companies' securities increases in response to any actions taken by the portfolio companies. We cannot assure you that any of the foregoing will succeed.The Investment Funds' investment strategy involves numerous and significant risks, including the risk that we may lose some or all of our investments in the Investment Funds. This risk may be magnified due to concentration of investments and investments in undervalued securities.Our Investment segment's revenue depends on the investments made by the Investment Funds. There are numerous and significant risks associated with these investments, certain of which are described in this risk factor and in other risk factors set forth herein.Certain investment positions in which the Investment Funds may have an interest may be illiquid. The Investment Funds may own restricted or non-publicly traded securities and securities traded on foreign exchanges. These investments could prevent the Investment Funds from liquidating unfavorable positions promptly and subject the Investment Funds to substantial losses.At any given time, the Investment Funds' assets may become highly concentrated within a particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or financial or economic market. In that event, the Investment Fund's investment portfolio will be more susceptible to fluctuations in value resulting from adverse economic conditions affecting the performance of that particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or economic market than a less concentrated portfolio would be. As a result, the Investment Funds' investment portfolio could become concentrated and its aggregate return may be volatile and may be affected substantially by the performance of only one or a few holdings.The Investment Funds seek to invest in securities that are undervalued. The identification of investment opportunities in undervalued securities is a difficult task, and there are no assurances that such opportunities will be successfully recognized or acquired. While investments in undervalued securities offer the opportunity for above-average capital appreciation, these investments involve a high degree of financial risk and can result in substantial losses. Returns generated from the Investment Funds' investments may not adequately compensate for the business and financial risks assumed.From time to time, the Investment Funds may invest in bonds or other fixed income securities, such as commercial paper and higher yielding (and, therefore, higher risk) debt securities. It is likely that a major economic recession could severely disrupt the market for such securities and may have a material adverse impact on the value of such securities. In addition, it is likely that any such economic downturn could adversely affect the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and pay interest thereon and increase the incidence of default for such securities.20For reasons not necessarily attributable to any of the risks set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (for example, supply/demand imbalances or other market forces), the prices of the securities in which the Investment Funds invest may decline substantially. In particular, purchasing assets at what may appear to be undervalued levels is no guarantee that these assets will not be trading at even more undervalued levels at a future time of valuation or at the time of sale.The prices of financial instruments in which the Investment Funds may invest can be highly volatile. Price movements of forward and other derivative contracts in which the Investment Funds' assets may be invested are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments, and national and international political and economic events and policies. The Investment Funds are subject to the risk of failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses.The use of leverage in investments by the Investment Funds may pose a significant degree of risk and may enhance the possibility of significant loss in the value of the investments in the Investment Funds.The Investment Funds may leverage their capital if their general partners believe that the use of leverage may enable the Investment Funds to achieve a higher rate of return. Accordingly, the Investment Funds may pledge its securities in order to borrow additional funds for investment purposes. The Investment Funds may also leverage its investment return with options, short sales, swaps, forwards and other derivative instruments. The amount of borrowings that the Investment Funds may have outstanding at any time may be substantial in relation to their capital. While leverage may present opportunities for increasing the Investment Funds' total return, leverage may increase losses as well. Accordingly, any event that adversely affects the value of an investment by the Investment Funds would be magnified to the extent such fund is leveraged. The cumulative effect of the use of leverage by the Investment Funds in a market that moves adversely to the Investment Funds' investments could result in a substantial loss to the Investment Funds that would be greater than if the Investment Funds were not leveraged. There is no assurance that leverage will be available on acceptable terms, if at all.In general, the use of short-term margin borrowings results in certain additional risks to the Investment Funds. For example, should the securities pledged to brokers to secure any Investment Fund's margin accounts decline in value, the Investment Funds could be subject to a “margin call,” pursuant to which it must either deposit additional funds or securities with the broker, or suffer mandatory liquidation of the pledged securities to compensate for the decline in value. In the event of a sudden drop in the value of any of the Investment Funds' assets, the Investment Funds might not be able to liquidate assets quickly enough to satisfy its margin requirements.Any of the Investment Funds may enter into repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. When the Investment Funds enters into a repurchase agreement, it “sells” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, to a broker-dealer or financial institution, and agrees to repurchase such securities for the price paid by the broker-dealer or financial institution, plus interest at a negotiated rate. In a reverse repurchase transaction, the Investment Fund “buys” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, from a broker-dealer or financial institution, subject to the obligation of the broker-dealer or financial institution to repurchase such securities at the price paid by the Investment Funds, plus interest at a negotiated rate. The use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements by any of the Investment Funds involves certain risks. For example, if the seller of securities to the Investment Funds under a reverse repurchase agreement defaults on its obligation to repurchase the underlying securities, as a result of its bankruptcy or otherwise, the Investment Funds will seek to dispose of such securities, which action could involve costs or delays. If the seller becomes insolvent and subject to liquidation or reorganization under applicable bankruptcy or other laws, the Investment Funds' ability to dispose of the underlying securities may be restricted. Finally, if a seller defaults on its obligation to repurchase securities under a reverse repurchase agreement, the Investment Funds may suffer a loss to the extent it is forced to liquidate its position in the market, and proceeds from the sale of the underlying securities are less than the repurchase price agreed to by the defaulting seller.The financing used by the Investment Funds to leverage its portfolio will be extended by securities brokers and dealers in the marketplace in which the Investment Funds invest. While the Investment Funds will attempt to negotiate the terms of these financing arrangements with such brokers and dealers, its ability to do so will be limited. The Investment Funds are therefore subject to changes in the value that the broker-dealer ascribes to a given security or position, the amount of margin required to support such security or position, the borrowing rate to finance such security or position and/or such broker-dealer's willingness to continue to provide any such credit to the Investment Funds. Because the Investment Funds currently have no alternative credit facility which could be used to finance its portfolio in the absence of financing from broker-dealers, it could be forced to liquidate its portfolio on short notice to meet its financing obligations. The forced liquidation of all or a portion of the Investment Funds' portfolios at distressed prices could result in significant losses to the Investment Funds.The possibility of increased regulation could result in additional burdens on our Investment segment. Changes in tax law could adversely affect us.In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Reform Act, was enacted into law. The Reform Act would have required one or more entities within our Investment segment to be registered with the SEC by March 2012 as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and would have imposed certain reporting 21and other requirements on such registered entity or entities. However, we will not be required to register with the SEC as a result of the return of fee-paying capital, as described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Reform Act requires additional rulemaking by the SEC that could impact such entities or other affiliated entities. We cannot predict the effect on us of such rulemaking at this time. The regulatory environment in which our Investment segment operates is subject to further regulation in addition to the rules already promulgated. Our Investment segment may be adversely affected by the enactment of new or revised regulations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of rules and regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Such changes may limit the scope of investment activities that may be undertaken by the Investment Funds' managers. Any such changes could increase the cost of our Investment segment's doing business and/or materially adversely impact our profitability. Additionally, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have taken and are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Investment Funds and the Investment segment could be substantial and adverse.In addition, legislative proposals have been introduced that, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. These proposals have included taxing publicly traded partnerships engaged in the Investment segment, such as us, as corporations and introducing substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income, which could make it more difficult or impossible to for us to meet the exception that allows publicly traded partnerships generating qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) of U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is unclear when or if such legislation would be introduced, whether or not such legislation would be enacted, what specific provisions would be included or what the effective date would be, and as a result the ultimate impact on us of any such legislation is uncertain. It is possible that if carried interest legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation. We currently cannot predict the outcome of such legislative proposals, including, if enacted, their impact on our operations and financial positionThe failure of Mr. Icahn to participate in the management of the Investment Funds could have a material adverse effect on the Investment Funds and on us.The success of the Investment Funds depends upon the ability of our Investment segment to develop and implement investment strategies that achieve the Investment Funds' investment objectives. Subjective decisions made by employees of our Investment segment may cause the Investment Funds to incur losses or to miss profit opportunities on which the Investment Funds would otherwise have capitalized. In the event that Mr. Icahn ceases to participate in the management of the Investment Funds, the consequences to the Investment Funds and our interest in them could be material and adverse and could lead to the premature termination of the Investment Funds. The loss of Mr. Icahn could, therefore, ultimately result in a loss of substantially all of the earnings of our Investment segment.The Investment Funds make investments in companies we do not control.Investments by the Investment Funds include investments in debt or equity securities of publicly traded companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by the Investment Funds through open market trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. These investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which our Investment segment disagree or that the majority of stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve the best interests of the Investment Funds. In addition, the Investment Funds may make investments in which it shares control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for it to implement its investment approach or exit the investment when it otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of the investments by the Investment Funds could decrease and our Investment segment revenues could suffer as a result.The ability to hedge investments successfully is subject to numerous risks.The Investment Funds may utilize financial instruments, both for investment purposes and for risk management purposes in order to (i) protect against possible changes in the market value of the Investment Funds' investment portfolios resulting from fluctuations in the securities markets and changes in interest rates; (ii) protect the Investment Funds' unrealized gains in the value of its investment portfolios; (iii) facilitate the sale of any such investments; (iv) enhance or preserve returns, spreads or gains on any investment in the Investment Funds' portfolio; (v) hedge the interest rate or currency exchange rate on any of the Investment Funds' liabilities or assets; (vi) protect against any increase in the price of any securities our Investment segment anticipate purchasing at a later date; or (vii) for any other reason that our Investment segment deems appropriate.The success of any hedging activities will depend, in part, upon the degree of correlation between the performance of the 22instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the portfolio investments being hedged. However, hedging techniques may not always be possible or effective in limiting potential risks of loss. Since the characteristics of many securities change as markets change or time passes, the success of our Investment segment's hedging strategy will also be subject to the ability of our Investment segment to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. While the Investment Funds may enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce risk, such transactions may result in a poorer overall performance for the Investment Funds than if it had not engaged in such hedging transactions. For a variety of reasons, the Investment Funds may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments utilized and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Such an imperfect correlation may prevent the Investment Funds from achieving the intended hedge or expose the Investment Funds to risk of loss. The Investment Funds do not intend to seek to hedge every position and may determine not to hedge against a particular risk for various reasons, including, but not limited to, because they do not regard the probability of the risk occurring to be sufficiently high as to justify the cost of the hedge. Our Investment segment may not foresee the occurrence of the risk and therefore may not hedge against all risks.We are subject to third-party litigation risks attributable to our Investment segment that could result in significant liabilities that could adversely affect our Investment operations.Some of the tactics that the Investment Funds may use involve litigation. The Investment Funds could be a party to lawsuits that they initiate or that are initiated by a company in which the Investment Funds invest, other shareholders, or state and federal governmental bodies. There can be no assurance that litigation, once begun, would be resolved in favor of the Investment Funds.In addition, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by third parties or government regulators if our Investment segment's management of the Investment Funds is alleged to constitute gross negligence, willful misconduct or dishonesty or breach of contract or organizational documents or to violate applicable law. In such actions, we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may exceed our available insurance coverage). In addition, our rights to indemnification from the applicable Investment Funds may be challenged.Certain of the Investment Funds are incorporated or formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands laws, particularly with respect to shareholder rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, may differ from the laws of the United States and could possibly change to the detriment of the Investment Funds.The Investment Funds may invest in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose the Investment Funds to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States.Investments in securities of non-U.S. issuers (including non-U.S. governments) and securities denominated or whose prices are quoted in non-U.S. currencies pose, to the extent not successfully hedged, currency exchange risks (including blockage, devaluation and non-exchangeability), as well as a range of other potential risks, which could include expropriation, confiscatory taxation, imposition of withholding or other taxes on dividends, interest, capital gains or other income, political or social instability, illiquidity, price volatility and market manipulation. In addition, less information may be available regarding securities of non-U.S. issuers, and non-U.S. issuers may not be subject to accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and requirements comparable to, or as uniform as, those of U.S. issuers. Transaction costs of investing in non-U.S. securities markets are generally higher than in the United States. There is generally less government supervision and regulation of exchanges, brokers and issuers than there is in the United States. The Investment Funds may have greater difficulty taking appropriate legal action in non-U.S. courts. Non-U.S. markets also have different clearance and settlement procedures which in some markets have at times failed to keep pace with the volume of transactions, thereby creating substantial delays and settlement failures that could adversely affect the Investment Funds' performance. Investments in non-U.S. markets may result in imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to such securities. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not materially adversely affect the Investment Funds' investments that are held in certain countries or the returns from these investments.The Investment Funds invest in distressed securities, as well as bank loans, asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities.The Investment Funds may invest in securities of U.S. and non-U.S. issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial capital needs or negative net worth, facing special competitive or product obsolescence problems, or that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. Investments of this type may involve substantial financial, legal and business risks that can result in substantial, or at times even total, losses. The market prices of such securities are subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and above-average price volatility. It may take a number of years for the market price of such securities to reflect their intrinsic value. In liquidation (both in and out of bankruptcy) and other forms of corporate insolvency and reorganization, there exists the risk that the reorganization either will be unsuccessful (due to, for example, failure to obtain requisite approvals), will be delayed (for example, until various liabilities, actual or contingent, have been satisfied) or will result in a distribution of cash, assets or a new security the value of which will be less than the purchase price to the Investment Funds of the security in respect to which such distribution was made and the terms of 23which may render such security illiquid.The Investment Funds' investments are subject to numerous additional risks, certain of which are described below.•Generally, there are few limitations set forth in the governing documents of the Investment Funds on the execution of their investment activities, which are subject to the sole discretion of our Investment segment.•The Investment Funds may buy or sell (or write) both call options and put options, and when it writes options, it may do so on a covered or an uncovered basis. When the Investment Funds sell (or write) an option, the risk can be substantially greater than when it buys an option. The seller of an uncovered call option bears the risk of an increase in the market price of the underlying security above the exercise price. The risk is theoretically unlimited unless the option is covered. If it is covered, the Investment Funds would forego the opportunity for profit on the underlying security should the market price of the security rise above the exercise price. Swaps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the swap counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the swap counterparty, market risk, liquidity risk and operations risk.•The ability of the Investment Funds to execute a short selling strategy may be materially adversely impacted by temporary and/or new permanent rules, interpretations, prohibitions and restrictions adopted in response to adverse market events. Regulatory authorities may from time-to-time impose restrictions that adversely affect the Investment Funds' ability to borrow certain securities in connection with short sale transactions. In addition, traditional lenders of securities might be less likely to lend securities under certain market conditions. As a result, the Investment Funds may not be able to effectively pursue a short selling strategy due to a limited supply of securities available for borrowing.•The Investment Funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to a theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. The Investment Funds may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the borrowed securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the Investment Funds are otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions. There can be no assurance that the Investment Funds will be able to maintain the ability to borrow securities sold short. There also can be no assurance that the securities necessary to cover a short position will be available for purchase at or near prices quoted in the market.•The Investment Funds may effect transactions through over-the-counter or interdealer markets. The participants in such markets are typically not subject to credit evaluation and regulatory oversight as are members of exchange-based markets. This exposes the Investment Funds to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the Investment Fund to suffer a loss. Such “counterparty risk” is accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where the Investment Funds have concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of its counterparties. The Investment Funds are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of the Investment Funds' transactions with one counterparty.•Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by other institutions. This systemic risk may materially adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as prime brokers, clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the Investment Funds interact on a daily basis.•The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. The Investment Funds' trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the Investment Funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall positions were to need adjustment, the Investment Funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the Investment Funds may not be able to achieve the market position selected by our Investment segment and might incur a loss in liquidating their position.•The Investment Funds assets may be held in one or more accounts maintained for the Investment Fund by its prime broker or at other brokers or custodian banks, which may be located in various jurisdictions. The prime broker, other brokers (including those acting as sub-custodians) and custodian banks are subject to various laws and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions in the event of their insolvency. Accordingly, the practical effect of these laws and their application to the Investment Funds' assets may be subject to substantial variations, limitations and uncertainties. The insolvency of any of the prime brokers, local brokers, custodian banks or clearing corporations may result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of the Investment Funds' assets or in a significant delay in the Investment Funds having 24access to those assets.•The Investment Funds may invest in synthetic instruments that will usually have a contractual relationship only with the counterparty of the synthetic security. In the event of the insolvency of any counterparty, the Investment Funds' recourse will be limited to the collateral, if any, posted by the counterparty and, in the absence of collateral, the Investment Funds will be treated as a general creditor of the counterparty. While the Investment Funds expects that returns on a synthetic financial instrument may reflect those of each related reference obligation, as a result of the terms of the synthetic financial instrument and the assumption of the credit risk of the counterparty, a synthetic financial instrument may have a different expected return, a different (and potentially greater) probability of default and different expected loss and recovery characteristics following a default. Upon the occurrence of a credit event, maturity, acceleration or other termination of a synthetic financial instrument, the terms of the synthetic financial instrument may permit or require the counterparty to satisfy its obligations under the synthetic financial instrument by delivering to the Investment Funds one or more deliverable obligations (which may not be the reference obligation) or a cash payment (which may be less than the then-current market value of the reference obligation). In addition, a synthetic financial instrument may provide for early termination at a price based upon a marked-to-market valuation, which may be less than the principal or notional amount of the synthetic security. the Investment Funds may also invest in credit default swaps. The credit default swap market is rapidly evolving and substantial changes to the terms and conditions under which these financial instruments are traded have recently been revised. Additional revisions and regulatory reform should also be expected in the near future.AutomotiveAdverse conditions in the automotive market adversely affect demand for Federal-Mogul's products and expose Federal-Mogul to credit risks of its customers.Federal-Mogul's revenues are closely tied to global OE automobile sales, production levels and independent aftermarket parts replacement activity. The OE market is characterized by short-term volatility, with overall expected long-term growth in global vehicle sales and production. Automotive production in the local markets served by Federal-Mogul can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory and legislative oversight requirements and trade agreements. A variation in the level of automobile production would affect not only sales to OE customers but, depending on the reasons for the change, could impact demand from aftermarket customers. In addition, the aftermarket has become increasingly competitive. Our Automotive operations could be adversely affected if Federal-Mogul fails to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the demand for its products.Accounts receivable potentially subject Federal-Mogul to concentrations of credit risk. Federal-Mogul's customer base includes virtually every significant global automotive manufacturer, numerous Tier 1 automotive suppliers and a large number of distributors and installers of automotive aftermarket parts.Federal-Mogul's operations in foreign countries exposes our Automotive segment to risks related to economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations and import/export restrictions.Federal-Mogul has manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries. International operations are subject to certain risks including:•exposure to local economic conditions;•exposure to local political conditions (including the risk of seizure of assets by foreign governments);•currency exchange rate fluctuations (including, but not limited to, material exchange rate fluctuations, such as devaluations) and currency controls; •export and import restrictions; and•compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting inappropriate payments.The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on our Federal-Mogul are unpredictable and vary from country to country.Certain of Federal-Mogul's operating entities report their financial condition and results of operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (including, but not limited to Brazilian real, British pound, Chinese yuan renminbi, Czech crown, euro, Indian rupee, Mexican peso, Polish zloty, Russian ruble, South Korean won and Swedish krona). In reporting its consolidated statements of operations, Federal-Mogul translates the reported results of these entities into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the dollar against foreign currencies will affect the value at which the results of these entities are included within Federal-Mogul's consolidated results.25Federal-Mogul is exposed to a risk of gain or loss from changes in foreign exchange rates whenever Federal-Mogul, or one of its foreign subsidiaries, enters into a purchase or sales agreement in a currency other than its functional currency. While Federal-Mogul reduces such exposure by matching most revenues and costs within the same currency, changes in exchange rates could impact our Automotive operations. Federal-Mogul has substantial indebtedness, which could restrict its business activities and could subject Federal-Mogul to significant interest rate risk.As of December 31, 2011, Federal-Mogul had approximately $2.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness. Federal-Mogul is permitted by the terms of its debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. Federal-Mogul's inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's indebtedness could:•limit its ability to borrow money for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes;•require Federal-Mogul to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments on indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements;•increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and•limit its ability to respond to business opportunities.A significant portion of Federal-Mogul's indebtedness accrues interest at variable rates. To the extent market interest rates rise, the cost of Federal-Mogul's debt would increase, adversely affecting our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul is subject to possible insolvency of financial counterparties.Federal-Mogul engages in numerous financial transactions and contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit line agreements, financial derivatives (including interest rate swaps), and investment management agreements involving various counterparties. Federal-Mogul is subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to discharge its obligations under such contracts.The automotive industry is highly competitive and Federal-Mogul's success depends upon its ability to compete effectively in the market.Federal-Mogul operates in an extremely competitive industry, driven by global vehicle production volumes and part replacement trends. Business is typically awarded to the supplier offering the most favorable combination of cost, quality, technology and service. In addition, customers continue to require periodic price reductions that require Federal-Mogul to continually assess, redefine and improve its operations, products and manufacturing capabilities to maintain and improve profitability. Federal-Mogul's management continues to develop and execute initiatives to meet the challenges of the industry and to achieve its strategy; however, there can be no assurance that Federal-Mogul will be able to compete effectively in the automotive market.Federal-Mogul's pension obligations and other post-employment benefits could adversely impact its operating margins and cash flows.The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post-employment benefits. In addition, Federal-Mogul sponsors certain defined benefit plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. If the performance of the assets in the pension plans does not meet our expectations, or other actuarial assumptions are modified, Federal-Mogul's required contributions may be higher than it expects.Federal-Mogul's restructuring activities may not result in the anticipated synergies and cost savings.It is possible that the achievement of expected synergies and cost savings associated with restructuring activities will require additional costs or charges to earnings in future periods. It is also possible that the expected synergies may not be achieved. Any costs or charges could adversely impact our Automotive operations.Certain disruptions in supply of and changes in the competitive environment for raw materials could adversely affect Federal-Mogul's operating margins and cash flows.Federal-Mogul purchases a broad range of materials, components and finished parts. Federal-Mogul also uses a significant amount of energy, both electricity and natural gas, in the production of its products. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials, supplies and energy or the failure of a supplier with whom Federal-Mogul has established a single source supply relationship could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase operating costs and materially adversely 26affect profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets where Federal-Mogul purchases material, components and supplies for the production of products or where the products are produced, distributed or sold, whether as a result of labor strife, war, further acts of terrorism or otherwise, in each case may adversely affect profitability.In recent periods there have been significant fluctuations in the prices of aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, platinum, resins, steel, other base metals and energy that have had and may continue to have an unfavorable impact on Federal-Mogul's business. Any continued fluctuations in the price or availability of energy and materials may have an adverse effect on our Automotive operations. To address increased costs associated with these market forces, a number of Federal-Mogul's suppliers have implemented surcharges on existing fixed price contracts. Without the surcharge, some suppliers claim they will be unable to provide adequate supply. Competitive and marketing pressures may limit Federal-Mogul's ability to pass some of the supply and material cost increases onto its customers and may prevent Federal-Mogul from doing so in the future. Furthermore, Federal-Mogul's customers are generally not obligated to accept price increases that Federal-Mogul may desire to pass along to them. This inability to pass on price increases to customers when material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than historic levels could adversely affect its operating margins and cash flow, possibly resulting in lower operating income and profitability.Federal-Mogul's hedging activities to address commodity price fluctuations may not be successful in offsetting future increases in those costs or may reduce or eliminate the benefits of any decreases in those costs.In order to mitigate short-term variation in operating results due to the aforementioned commodity price fluctuations, Federal-Mogul hedges a portion of near-term exposure to certain raw materials used in production processes, primarily natural gas, copper, nickel, tin, zinc, high-grade aluminum and aluminum alloy. The results of Federal-Mogul's hedging practice could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes in the hedged exposures.Federal-Mogul's hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect from long-term commodity price increases. Federal-Mogul's future hedging positions may not correlate to actual energy or raw materials costs, which would cause acceleration in the recognition of unrealized gains and losses on hedging positions in operating results.Federal-Mogul is subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and the cost of complying, or Federal-Mogul's failure to comply, with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul is subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment, the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous waste materials, or otherwise relating to the protection of public and employee health, safety and the environment. These laws and regulations expose Federal-Mogul to liability for the environmental condition of its current facilities, and also may expose Federal-Mogul to liability for the conduct of others or for Federal-Mogul's actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. These laws and regulations also may expose Federal-Mogul to liability for claims of personal injury or property damage related to alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic materials in foreign countries. Despite Federal-Mogul's intention to be in compliance with all such laws and regulations, Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that it will at all times be in compliance with all such requirements. The cost of complying with these requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If Federal-Mogul violates or fails to comply with these requirements, Federal-Mogul could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. These requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on its business.Federal-Mogul's failure to maintain and comply with environmental permits that it is required to maintain could result in fines or penalties or other sanctions and have a material adverse effect on its operations or results. Future events, such as new environmental regulations or changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, newly discovered information or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul is involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes, which could have an adverse impact on its profitability and consolidated financial position.Federal-Mogul is involved in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes that, from time to time, are significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, environmental issues, tax matters and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on our Automotive operations.27If Federal-Mogul is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, its ability to compete in the market may be harmed.Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent Federal-Mogul's competitors from duplicating its products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit Federal-Mogul to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.Any of Federal-Mogul's patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any reason and countries outside the United States may diminish the protection of its patents. If Federal-Mogul's patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded to Federal-Mogul's products could be impaired, which could significantly impede Federal-Mogul's ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's pending or future patent applications may not result in an issued patent. Additionally, newly issued patents may not provide Federal-Mogul with meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. Courts in the United States and in other countries may invalidate Federal-Mogul's patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around Federal-Mogul's patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on its sales. If Federal-Mogul's intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, it may not be able to commercialize its technologies, products or services and its competitors could commercialize its technologies, which could result in a decrease in Federal-Mogul's sales and market share, and could materially adversely affect our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul's products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and could prevent Federal-Mogul from using technology that is essential to its products.Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against Federal-Mogul, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm its reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of its business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force Federal-Mogul to do one or more of the following:•cease selling or using any of products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect Federal-Mogul's revenue;•pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property;•obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and•redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do.In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or Federal-Mogul's failure to license essential technology, Federal-Mogul's sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our Automotive operations.Federal-Mogul may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change.Climate change is continuing to receive ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which could lead to additional legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The focus on emissions could increase costs associated with Federal-Mogul's operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. Because the scope of future laws in this area is uncertain, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our operations' future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.GamingIntense competition exists and is growing in the gaming industry and Tropicana may not be able to compete effectively, which could negatively affect our Gaming operations. The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. Tropicana faces increasing intense competition with numerous casinos and hotel casinos of varying quality and size in market 28areas where its properties are located. Tropicana also competes with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses and could compete with any new forms of gaming that exist or may be legalized in the future, including on-line gaming. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity and may soon include virtual casinos having entirely different cost structures and game offerings. In most markets, Tropicana competes directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas. In some markets, Tropicana faces competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within its market areas as well as the threat from new, emerging markets.In 2010, Tropicana AC implemented a new marketing strategy to target high-end table game players to counter the increased competition from Pennsylvania and other surrounding markets. Casino revenues can vary because of table game hold percentage and differences in the odds for different table games. High-end play may lead to greater fluctuations in our table game hold percentage and, as a result, we may experience greater revenue and earnings fluctuation between reporting periods due to this marketing strategy.In recent years, competition in existing markets has intensified. For example, competition with the Atlantic City market has increased with Pennsylvania and Delaware commencing live table game operations in fiscal 2010, two new casinos opening in September 2010 and January 2011 in Maryland, a new casino opening in New York in late fiscal 2011 and a new competitor in Atlantic City to open in the spring of fiscal 2012. In addition, Tropicana's competitors have invested in expanding their existing facilities and developing new facilities. Tropicana's subsidiaries, on the other hand, historically have been subject to limitations on capital expenditures resulting from the Chapter 11 Cases. Tropicana's ability to invest in its properties going forward may continue to be constrained, and it may not be able to compete effectively with casinos that have been modernized or recently expanded.Furthermore, competition from internet lotteries and other internet wagering gaming services, which allow their customers to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, could divert customers from our properties and thus adversely affect our business. Such internet wagering services are generally illegal under federal law but operate from overseas locations, and are nevertheless sometimes accessible to domestic gamblers. Some states are considering legislation to legalize intrastate internet wagering. There are also proposals that would specifically legalize internet gaming under federal law.The expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of gaming opportunities, the potential emergence of legal internet gaming and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of Tropicana's competitors have also increased competition in many markets in which it competes, and Tropicana expects this intense competition to continue.If Tropicana's competitors operate more successfully than it does, if they are more successful than Tropicana in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around the locations in which Tropicana conducts business, or if on-line gaming is permitted and conducted in any of its markets, Tropicana may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which Tropicana attracts or expects to attract a significant number of its customers could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.The casino, hotel and resort industry is capital intensive and Tropicana may not be able to finance expansion and renovation projects, which could put it at a competitive disadvantage.Tropicana's properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Because of the bankruptcies, the Predecessors and Tropicana AC deferred renovations and capital improvements. Tropicana also needs to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations.Renovations and other capital improvements of Tropicana's properties require significant capital expenditures. In addition, renovations and capital improvements of its properties usually generate little or no cash flow until the project is completed. Tropicana may not be able to fund such projects solely from cash provided from its operating activities. Consequently, it relies upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund renovations and capital improvements and its ability to carry them out will be limited if Tropicana cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing, which will depend on, among other things, market conditions. No assurances can be made that Tropicana will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that it will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. Tropicana's failure to renovate its gaming properties may put it at a competitive disadvantage, which could have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming segment.Renovations and other capital improvements may disrupt Tropicana's operations.Renovation projects may cause Tropicana to temporarily close all or a portion of its facilities to customers and disrupt service and room availability, causing reduced demand, occupancy and rates. As a result, any future capital improvements 29projects may increase Tropicana's expenses and reduce its cash flows and its revenues and, accordingly, may have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming segment.Work stoppages, labor problems and unexpected shutdowns may limit Tropicana's operational flexibility and negatively impact its future profits.Tropicana is party to 10 collective bargaining agreements with different unions. In September 2011, the collective bargaining agreement with UNITE HERE Local 54 covering approximately 1,100 employees at Tropicana AC expired and Tropicana AC is presently operating without an agreement with this union. In January 2012, Tropicana AC advised UNITE HERE Local 54 that the parties were at an impasse and provided the union with Tropicana AC's final proposal. Tropicana withdrew from the UNITE HERE National Retirement Fund on February 25, 2012.Tropicana cannot assure you that it will be able to enter into a new collective bargaining agreement with UNITE HERE Local 54 or renegotiate the other collective bargaining agreements with other unions currently in effect. The addition of new or changes to the existing collective bargaining agreements could cause significant increases in labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment.In addition, the unions with which Tropicana has collective bargaining agreements or other unions could seek to organize employees at Tropicana's non-union properties or groups of employees at its properties that are not currently represented by unions. Union organization efforts could cause disruptions in its businesses and result in significant costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment.Finally, if Tropicana is unable to negotiate these agreements on mutually acceptable terms, the affected employees, including union members within the UNITE HERE Local 54 bargaining unit, may engage in a strike or other job actions instead of continuing to operate without contracts or under expired contracts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming segment, including the operations of Tropicana AC. Any unexpected shutdown of one of the casino properties including Tropicana AC from a work stoppage or strike action could have an adverse effect on our Gaming segment. Moreover, strikes and work stoppages could also result in adverse media attention or otherwise discourage customers from visiting Tropicana's casinos. There can be no assurance that Tropicana can be adequately prepared for unexpected labor developments that may lead to a temporary or permanent shutdown of any of its casino properties.Tropicana's business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the local, regional or national economy. Consumer demand for casino and hotel properties, such as Tropicana's, are particularly sensitive to downturns in the local, regional or national economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the current housing crisis, the recent credit crisis, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for continued bank failures, perceived or actual declines in disposable consumer income and wealth, the effect of the current economic environment and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for amenities that Tropicana offers.The recent housing crisis and recession in the United States have resulted in a significant decline in tourism and consumer spending. Economic conditions like the recent downturn (and slowdowns or recessions less severe) could cause fewer consumers to spend money or cause consumers to spend less money at Tropicana's properties and could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations. While general economic conditions have modestly improved, there can be no assurance that they will continue to improve or will not worsen in the future. The recent state of the global financial markets may impact Tropicana's ability to obtain sufficient financing and credit on a going forward basis which could negatively impact its ability to operate its business.In addition to earnings and cash flows from operations, Tropicana relies on borrowed money to finance its business, which may be constrained if it is unable to borrow additional capital or refinance existing borrowings on reasonable terms. Developments in the global financial markets that have led to unpredictable government intervention in the United States and European banking systems, including the fiscal 2008 capital crisis in the banking system, a series of rating agency downgrades of subprime U.S. mortgage‑related assets and significant provisions for loan losses recorded by major financial institutions and downgrades of sovereign debt in certain EU member nations, have resulted in volatility in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many global financial markets and other adverse conditions for issuers in fixed income, credit and equity markets. In the recent past, these markets have experienced disruption that had a dramatic impact on the availability and cost of capital and credit. The market interest rate for debt of companies similar to Tropicana's has been volatile. The United States and other governments have enacted legislation and taken other actions to help alleviate these conditions, although there is no assurance that such steps will have the effect of easing the conditions in global credit and capital markets. Therefore, Tropicana has no assurance that such steps will facilitate its further access to credit or capital markets at desirable times or at rates that it would consider acceptable, and the lack of such funding could have a material adverse effect on our Gaming operations and its ability 30to service its indebtedness. While these conditions have recently improved, there can be no assurance that they will not worsen in the future. Tropicana is unable to predict the likely duration or severity of any disruption in the capital and credit markets, or its impact on the larger economy. A disruption in the global credit and financial markets may materially and adversely affect Tropicana's ability to obtain sufficient financing to execute its business strategy.The bankruptcy filing has had a negative impact on Tropicana AC and the Predecessors' image which may negatively impact Tropicana's business going forward.As a result of the proceedings under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, Tropicana's Predecessors and Tropicana AC were the subject of negative publicity which has had an impact on the image of their assets. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers and suppliers are willing to do business with Tropicana and could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may face potential successor liability for liabilities of the Predecessors not provided for in the Plan.As the successor to the Predecessors, Tropicana may be subject to certain liabilities of the Predecessors not provided for in the Plan. Such liabilities may arise in a number of circumstances, including but not limited to, those where:•a creditor of the Predecessors did not receive proper notice of the pendency of the bankruptcy case relating to the Plan or the deadline for filing claims therein; •the injury giving rise to, or the source of, a creditor's claim did not manifest itself in time for the creditor to file the creditor's claim;•a creditor did not timely file the creditor's claim in such bankruptcy case due to excusable neglect;•Tropicana is liable for the Predecessors' federal and/or state tax liabilities under a theory of successor liability; or•the order of confirmation for the Plan was procured by fraud.Although Tropicana has no reason to believe that it will become subject to liabilities of the Predecessors that are not provided for in the Plan, should Tropicana become subject to such liabilities, it could materially adversely affect our Gaming segment. Our Gaming segment has a limited operating history.Tropicana was formed in May 2009 and has a limited operating history. There are substantial risks and uncertainties to which our Gaming segment is subject. To address these risks and uncertainties, Tropicana must do the following, among other things:•Successfully execute its business strategy;•Respond to competitive developments; and•Attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel.We cannot assure that Tropicana will operate profitably or that Tropicana will have adequate working capital to meet its obligations as they become due. Additionally, there can be no assurance that Tropicana's business strategy will be successful, that it will successfully address the risks that face its business or that it will be able to access capital markets to raise additional capital. In the event that Tropicana does not successfully address these risks, our Gaming segment could be materially and adversely affected.Tropicana may be subject to litigation resulting from its gaming, resort and dining operations, which, if adversely determined, could result in substantial losses.Tropicana will be, from time to time, during the ordinary course of operating its businesses, subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes, including contract, lease, employment and regulatory claims as well as claims made by visitors to its properties. Certain litigation claims may not be covered entirely or at all by its insurance policies or its insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. In addition, litigation claims can be expensive to defend and may divert Tropicana's attention from the operations of its businesses. Further, litigation involving visitors to its properties, even if without merit, can attract adverse media attention. As a result, litigation can have a material adverse effect on its businesses. Tropicana cannot predict the outcome of any action and it is possible that adverse judgments or settlements could significantly reduce our Gaming segment revenues.State gaming laws and regulations may require holders of Tropicana's debt or equity securities to undergo a suitability investigation, and may result in redemption of their securities.Many jurisdictions require any person who acquires beneficial ownership of debt or equity securities of a casino gaming company to apply for qualification or a finding of suitability. Generally, any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding 31of suitability or a license within the prescribed period after being advised by gaming authorities that it is required to do so may be denied a license or found unsuitable or unqualified, as applicable. Any holder of securities that is found unsuitable or unqualified or denied a license, and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of a gaming entity's securities beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the applicable gaming authorities may be guilty of a criminal offense. Furthermore, a gaming entity may be subject to disciplinary action if such gaming entity, after receiving notice that a person is unsuitable to be a holder of securities or to have any other relationship with such gaming entity or any of its subsidiaries:•pays that person any dividend or interest upon the securities;•allows that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting ownership right conferred through securities held by that person;•pays remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise;•allows that person to continue in an ownership or economic interest or receive any economic benefit; or•fails to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish the securities including, if necessary, the immediate (or within such other time period as prescribed by the applicable gaming authorities) purchase of such securities for the lesser of fair value at the time of repurchase or fair value at the time of acquisition by the unsuitable holder.In the event that disqualified holders fail to divest themselves of such securities, gaming authorities have the power to revoke or suspend the casino license or licenses related to the regulated entity that issued the securities. In addition, Tropicana's certificate of incorporation provides that it may redeem its securities from an Unsuitable Person (as such term is defined in Tropicana's certificate of incorporation).Regulation by gaming authorities could adversely affect our Gaming segment's operations.Tropicana is subject to extensive regulation with respect to the ownership and operation of its gaming facilities. Federal, state and local gaming authorities require that Tropicana and its subsidiaries hold various licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals. The gaming regulatory authorities have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and alcoholic beverage service and may deny, revoke, suspend, condition, or limit Tropicana's gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines, temporarily suspend casino operations and take other actions, any one of which could adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana owns, operates or has an interest in gaming facilities located in Nevada, Indiana, Mississippi, Louisiana, New Jersey and Aruba. Tropicana has obtained all material governmental licenses, qualifications, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of its gaming facilities as operations at such facilities are presently conducted. However, there can be no assurance that Tropicana can obtain any new licenses, or renew any existing, licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits or approvals that may be required in the future or that existing ones will not be suspended or revoked. If Tropicana relocates or expands any of its current gaming facilities or enters new jurisdictions, it must obtain all additional licenses, qualifications, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals of the applicable gaming authorities in such jurisdictions. If state regulatory authorities were to find an officer, director, owner or other person affiliated with its operations unsuitable, Tropicana would be required to sever its relationship with that person. Gaming authorities, as well as other state regulatory authorities, may conduct similar investigations in the future in connection with new equity and debt holders. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or their potential impact on our Gaming segment.Additionally, certain manufacturers, distributors and suppliers of gaming devices, junkets, goods or services to Tropicana's gaming facilities may be required to obtain a license or permit or undergo a suitability investigation by the gaming authorities. There can be no assurance that such licenses or permits will be obtained by such vendors. The failure of any such vendors to obtain any required licenses or permits on a timely basis could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations resulting from its presence in several states and diverse operating activities.In addition to gaming regulations, Tropicana is also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. Tropicana operates hotels, restaurants, entertainment facilities, parking garages, swimming pools, riverboats and other facilities connected with its core gaming business. Many of these activities are subject to state and local laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, in July 2006, New Jersey gaming properties, including Tropicana AC, were required to temporarily close their casinos for three days as a result of a New Jersey statewide government shutdown that affected certain New Jersey state employees required to be at casinos when they are open for business that resulted in loss of revenues. Any cessation of operations as a result of a government shutdown, or similar events resulting from laws and regulations affecting businesses, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.32Potential changes in legislation and regulation could negatively impact Tropicana's gaming operations.From time to time, legislators and special interest groups propose legislation that would expand, restrict, or prevent gaming operations in the jurisdictions in which Tropicana operates and in neighboring jurisdictions. Further, from time to time, individual jurisdictions have considered or enacted legislation and referenda, such as bans on smoking in casinos and other entertainment and dining facilities, which could adversely affect Tropicana and, accordingly, our Gaming segment. Any restriction on or prohibition relating to our Gaming segment, or enactment of other adverse legislation or regulatory changes, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may be subject to increases in taxation and fees resulting from its gaming operations.The casino gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the various jurisdictions in which casinos operate. Gaming companies are currently subject to significant federal, state and local taxes and fees in addition to the federal and state income taxes that typically apply to corporations, and such taxes and fees could increase at any time. From time to time, various state and federal legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws, including increases in tax rates, which would affect the gaming industry. Economic conditions could intensify the efforts of federal, state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes and fees. In addition, growing federal, state or local budget shortfalls resulting from the recent recession could prompt tax or fee increases. Any material increase in assessed taxes, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees in any of Tropicana's markets could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Our Gaming segment could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of accidents, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, or other catastrophic events, including war and terrorism.Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes, could adversely affect our Gaming operations. Hurricanes are common to the areas in which Tropicana's Louisiana and Mississippi properties are located and the severity of such natural disasters is unpredictable. For example, in May 2011 both of Tropicana's properties in Greenville, Mississippi, Lighthouse Point and Jubilee were closed for approximately 29 days as a result of Mississippi River flooding causing substantial damage at its Lighthouse Point property and adversely affecting our Gaming operations at both properties. Similarly, in August 2011 Hurricane Irene and mandatory governmental evacuation orders for Atlantic City caused an approximate three-day closure of Tropicana AC's property, adversely affecting our Gaming operations. In 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused significant damage in the Gulf Coast region. We cannot predict the impact that any future natural disasters will have on Tropicana's ability to maintain its customer base or to sustain its business activities.Moreover, Tropicana's riverboats will face additional risks from the movement of vessels on waterways, such as collisions with other vessels or damage from debris in the water. Reduced patronage and the loss of a dockside or riverboat casino from service for any period of time could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Catastrophic events such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming (in some jurisdictions), and tourism. In addition, any man-made or natural disasters in or around Tropicana's properties could have a materially adverse effect on our Gaming operations. We cannot predict the extent to which such events may affect Tropicana and, accordingly, our Gaming segment, directly or indirectly, in the future. We also cannot ensure that Tropicana will be able to obtain any insurance coverage with respect to occurrences of terrorist acts and any losses that could result from these acts.In the future, the prolonged disruption at any of Tropicana's properties due to natural disasters, terrorist attacks, or other catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. These events can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact Tropicana's business levels. Furthermore, although Tropicana may have some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism may be unavailable.Tropicana's properties, including riverboats and dockside facilities, are subject to risks relating to mechanical failure, weather and regulatory compliance.All of Tropicana's facilities are subject to the risk that operations could be halted for a temporary or extended period of time, as result of casualty, forces of nature, mechanical failure or extended or extraordinary maintenance, among other causes. In addition, Tropicana's gaming operations, particularly those conducted on riverboats or at dockside facilities, could be damaged or halted due to extreme weather conditions. For example, in May 2011 both of Tropicana's properties in Greenville, Mississippi, Lighthouse Point and Jubilee were closed for approximately 29 days as a result of Mississippi River flooding causing substantial damage at its Lighthouse Point property and thereby adversely affecting our Gaming operations. Similarly, in August 2011 Hurricane Irene and mandatory governmental evacuation orders for Atlantic City caused an approximate three-33day closure of Tropicana AC's property, adversely affecting our Gaming operations.Each of Tropicana's riverboats must comply with U.S. Coast Guard requirements as to boat design, on-board facilities, equipment, personnel and safety. Each riverboat must hold a Certificate of Inspection for stabilization and flotation, and may also be subject to local zoning codes. The U.S. Coast Guard requirements establish standards, set limits on the operation of the vessels and require individual licensing of all personnel involved with the operation of the vessels. Loss of a vessel's Certificate of Inspection or American Bureau of Shipping approval would preclude its use as a casino.Except for Tropicana's riverboats that have opted for alternate inspection by the American Bureau of Shipping allowed in those gaming jurisdictions where Tropicana operates that provide for such alternative inspections, U.S. Coast Guard regulations require a hull inspection for all riverboats at five-year intervals. Under certain circumstances, alternative hull inspections may be approved. The U.S. Coast Guard may require that such hull inspections be conducted at a dry-docking facility and, if so required, the cost of travel to and from such docking facility, as well as the time required for inspections of the affected riverboats, could be significant. To date, the U.S. Coast Guard has allowed in-place inspections of Tropicana's riverboats. The U.S. Coast Guard may not allow these types of inspections in the future. The loss of a riverboat casino from service for any period of time could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.U.S. Coast Guard regulations also require certain of Tropicana's properties to prepare and follow certain security programs. In the first quarter of 2003, Casino Aztar implemented the American Gaming Association's Alternative Security Program at its riverboat casino. In January of 2007, Casino Aztar implemented the Passenger Vessel Association program and remains with this program to date. Belle of Baton Rouge applies a customized alternative security program. The American Gaming Association's Alternative Security Program is specifically designed to address maritime security requirements at riverboat casinos and their respective dockside facilities. Changes to these regulations could adversely affect our Gaming operations.Noncompliance with environmental, health and safety regulations applicable to Tropicana's hotels and casinos could adversely affect Tropicana's results of operations.As the owner, operator and developer of real property, Tropicana must address, and may be liable for, hazardous materials or contamination of these sites and any other off-site locations at which any hazardous material that its activities generate are disposed. Tropicana's ongoing operations are subject to stringent regulations relating to the protection of the environment and handling of waste, particularly with respect to the management of wastewater from its facilities. Any failure to comply with existing laws or regulations, the adoption of new laws or regulations with additional or more rigorous compliance standards, or the more vigorous enforcement of environmental laws or regulations could limit Tropicana's future opportunities and, accordingly, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry could impose additional costs on Tropicana's operations.A majority of Tropicana's gaming revenue is attributable to slot machines operated at its gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons that Tropicana offer popular and technologically advanced slot machine games to its customers. A substantial majority of the slot machines sold in the United States in recent years were manufactured by a limited number of companies. A deterioration in the commercial arrangements with any of these slot machine manufacturers, or significant industry demand, could result in Tropicana being unable to acquire the slot machines desired by its customers or could result in manufacturers significantly increasing the cost of these machines. Going forward, the inability to obtain new and up-to-date slot machine games could impair Tropicana's competitive position and result in decreased gaming revenues at its casinos. In addition, increases in the costs associated with acquiring slot machine games could adversely Tropicana's profitability and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our Gaming segment.In recent years, the prices of new slot machines have dramatically increased. Furthermore, in recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring gaming operators to execute participation lease arrangements for them to be able to offer such machines to patrons. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental fee. Such agreements may (depending on regulatory restrictions in the applicable jurisdiction) also include a percentage payment to the manufacturer based on the usage of the machine or the gaming company's receipts from the machine, sometimes referred to as “coin-in” or “net win” percentage payments. Generally, a slot machine participation lease is more expensive over the long term than the cost of purchasing a new slot machine. Tropicana has slot machine participation leases at each of its properties.For competitive reasons, Tropicana may be forced to purchase new, more contemporary slot machines, or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than the costs currently associated with the continued operation of existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.34Tropicana may not have or be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to replace or cover the full value of losses it may suffer.Tropicana's casino properties may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes and floods. In the future, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt its operations, damage its properties and reduce the number of customers who visit its facilities. Although Tropicana maintains both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption. We cannot assure you that Tropicana will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to Tropicana's affected properties and may cause visits to its affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period.While Tropicana maintains insurance against many risks to the extent and in amounts that it believes are reasonable, these policies will not cover all risks. Furthermore, portions of Tropicana's businesses are difficult or impracticable to insure. Therefore, after carefully weighing the costs, risks and benefits of retaining versus insuring various risks, as well as the availability of certain types of insurance coverage, Tropicana occasionally may opt to retain certain risks not covered by its insurance policies. Retained risks are associated with deductible limits or self-insured retentions, partial self-insurance programs and insurance policy coverage ceilings.Tropicana carries certain insurance policies that, in the event of certain substantial losses, may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of damaged property. As a result, if a significant event were to occur that is not fully covered by its insurance policies, Tropicana may lose all, or a portion of, its capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from such property. There can be no assurance that Tropicana will not face uninsured losses pertaining to the risks it has retained. Consequently, uninsured losses may negatively affect our Gaming operations.Tropicana may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage and cannot predict whether it may encounter difficulty in collecting on any insurance claims it may submit, including claims for business interruption.Energy price increases may adversely affect our Gaming segment due to the significant amounts of energy used in Tropicana's operations.Tropicana's casino properties use significant amounts of electricity, oil, natural gas and other forms of energy. Substantial increases in energy and fuel prices may negatively affect Tropicana's financial condition and results of operations in the future and, accordingly, our Gaming segment. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, but the impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for Tropicana's properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at Tropicana's properties, which would negatively impact our Gaming segment's revenues. Further, increases in fuel prices, and resulting increases in transportation costs, could materially adversely affect our Gaming operations.RailcarThe highly cyclical nature of the railcar industry and restricted credit markets may result in lower revenues during economic downturns. The North American railcar market has been, and ARI expects it to continue to be, highly cyclical resulting in volatility in demand for its products and services. Though ARI has seen improvements in the railcar market in fiscal 2011, these improvements may or may not continue. Although the railcar market is beginning to recover, the recent economic downturn adversely affected the overall railcar industry. Orders of ARI's railcars and other products slowed significantly between fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2010 resulting in decreased production rates and increased pricing pressures. ARI's new railcar orders fluctuated from approximately 2,510 in fiscal 2007, to approximately 280 in fiscal 2008, none in fiscal 2009 and approximately 2,590 in fiscal 2010. Currently, ARI estimates that approximately 97% of its December 31, 2011 backlog will be shipped during fiscal 2012. ARI's failure to obtain new orders would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Downturns in part or all of the railcar manufacturing industry may occur in the future, resulting in decreased demand for ARI's products and services. Most of the end users of ARI's railcars that it sells acquire them through leasing arrangements with its leasing company customers. The recent economic downturn and restricted credit markets have resulted in stricter borrowing conditions and, in some cases, higher interest rates for new borrowings, either of which could increase the cost of, or potentially deter, new leasing arrangements. These factors have caused and could in the future cause ARI's leasing company customers to purchase fewer railcars, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. 35ARI operates in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete successfully, which would materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI faces intense competition in all of its markets. In its railcar manufacturing business, ARI has four primary competitors. Any of these competitors may, from time to time, have greater resources than ARI does. ARI's current competitors may increase their participation in, or new competitors may enter into, the railcar markets in which it competes. Strong competition within the industry, which has been exacerbated by the recent economic downturn, has led to pricing pressures and could limit ARI's ability to maintain or increase prices or obtain better margins on its railcars. These pressures may intensify if consolidation among ARI's competitors occurs. If ARI produces any types of railcars other than what it currently produces, ARI will be competing with other manufacturers that may have more experience with that railcar type.ARI also has intense competition in its railcar leasing business from railcar manufacturers, banks and other financial institutions. ARI is competing with certain of its significant customers through its entry into the railcar leasing market. Some of ARI's railcar manufacturing competitors also produce railcars for use in their own railcar leasing fleet, competing directly with its new railcar leasing business and with leasing companies.New competitors, or alliances among existing competitors, may emerge in the railcar components industry and rapidly gain market share. ARI competes with numerous companies in its railcar fleet management and railcar repair services businesses, ranging from companies with greater resources than it has to small, local companies.Technological innovation by any of its existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which ARI does business, could put it at a competitive disadvantage and could cause it to lose market share. Increased competition for the sales of its railcars, its fleet management and repair services and its railcar components could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could materially adversely affect its prospects and our Railcar operations.ARI depends upon a small number of customers that represents a large percentage of its revenues. The loss of any single significant customer, a reduction in sales to any such significant customer or any such significant customer's inability to pay ARI in a timely manner could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.Railcars are typically sold pursuant to large, periodic orders and therefore, a limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of railcar sales in any given year. ARI's top ten customers represented approximately 78%, 76% and 89% of its total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Moreover, ARI's top three customers accounted for approximately 53%, 58% and 84% of its total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. The loss of any significant portion of its sales to any major customer, the loss of a single major customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of its major customers could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. If one of ARI's significant customers was unable to pay due to financial conditions, it could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. The cost of raw materials and components that ARI uses to manufacture railcars, particularly steel, are subject to escalation and surcharges and could increase. Any increase in these costs or delivery delays of these raw materials could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.The cost of raw materials, including steel, and components, including scrap metal, used in the production of ARI's railcars, represents more than half of its direct manufacturing costs per railcar. ARI has provisions in its current railcar manufacturing orders that allow it to pass on to its customers price fluctuations in and surcharges related to certain raw materials, including steel, as well as certain components. The number of customers to which ARI is not able to pass on price increases may increase in the future, and any such increase could adversely affect the operating margins and cash flows of our Railcar operations. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of steel, or any other material or component used in the production of ARI's railcars, could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. Such price increases could reduce demand for ARI's railcars. If ARI is not able to pass on price increases to its customers, ARI may lose railcar orders or enter into contracts with less favorable contract terms, any of which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. If any of ARI's raw material or component suppliers were unable to continue their businesses, the availability or price of the materials ARI uses could be adversely affected. Deliveries of ARI's raw materials and components may also fluctuate depending on various factors including supply and demand for the raw material or component, or governmental regulation relating to the raw material or component, including regulation relating to importation. Fluctuations in the supply of components and raw materials ARI uses in manufacturing railcars, which are often only available from a limited number of suppliers, could cause production delays or reductions in the number of railcars it manufactures, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's railcar manufacturing business depends on the adequate supply of numerous railcar components, such as railcar wheels, axles, brakes, bearings, yokes, sideframes, bolsters and other heavy castings. Some of these components are only available from a limited number of domestic suppliers. Strong demand can cause industry-wide shortages of many critical 36components as reliable suppliers could reach capacity production levels. Supply constraints in its industry are exacerbated because, although multiple suppliers may produce certain components, railcar manufacturing regulations and the physical capabilities of manufacturing facilities restrict the types and sizes of components and raw materials that manufacturers may use. In addition, ARI does not carry significant inventories of certain components and procures many of its components on an as-needed basis. In the event that its suppliers of railcar components and raw materials were to stop or reduce the production of railcar components and raw materials that it uses, or refuse to do business with ARI for any reason, ARI's business would be disrupted. ARI's inability to obtain components and raw materials in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in significant delays or reductions in railcar shipments and could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.If any of ARI's significant suppliers of railcar components were to shut down operations, its business and financial results could be materially adversely affected as it may incur substantial delays and significant expense in finding alternative sources. The quality and reliability of alternative sources may not be the same and these alternative sources may charge significantly higher prices.Uncertainty surrounding acceptance of ARI's new railcar offerings by its customers, and costs associated with those new offerings, could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's strategy depends in part on its continued development and sale of new railcar designs to expand or maintain its market share in its current railcar markets and new railcar markets. Any new or modified railcar design that ARI develops may not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace and any such products may not be able to compete successfully with existing railcar designs or new railcar designs that may be introduced by its competitors. Furthermore, ARI may experience significant initial costs of production of new railcar product lines related to training, labor and operating inefficiencies. To the extent that the total costs of production significantly exceed its anticipated costs of production, ARI may incur a loss on its sale of new railcar product lines.Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to ARI's facilities, particularly its railcar manufacturing complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas, could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns.An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at ARI's complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas or at any of its component manufacturing facilities, whether as a result of equipment failure or any other reason, could reduce, prevent or delay production of its railcars or railcar and industrial components, which could alter the scheduled delivery dates to its customers and affect its production schedule. This could result in the termination of orders, the loss of future sales and a negative impact to ARI's reputation with its customers and in the railcar industry, all of which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.All of ARI's facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes or weather conditions. ARI may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, delays in equipment deliveries, or extensive damage to any of its facilities, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's entry into the railcar leasing market may use significant amounts of cash and it may be unable to re-market railcars from expiring leases on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI will utilize existing cash to manufacture railcars it leases to customers, while cash from lease revenue will be received over the term of the railcar lease or leases relating to those railcars. Depending upon the number of railcars that ARI leases and the amount of cash used in other operations, its cash balances could be depleted and limit its ability to support operations, maintain or expand its existing business, or take advantage of new business opportunities. ARI could also experience defaults on leases that could further constrain cash. The failure to enter into commercially favorable railcar leases, re-lease or sell railcars upon lease expiration and successfully manage existing leases could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI's ability to re-lease or sell leased railcars profitably is dependent upon several factors, including the cost of and demand for leases or ownership of newer or specific use models, and the availability in the market of other used or new railcars. A downturn in the industries in which its lessees operate and decreased demand for railcars could also increase ARI's exposure to re-marketing risk because lessees may demand shorter lease terms or newer railcars, requiring ARI to re-market leased railcars more frequently. Furthermore, the resale market for previously leased railcars has a limited number of potential buyers. ARI's inability to re-lease or sell leased railcars on favorable terms could result in lower lease rates, lower lease utilization percentages and reduced revenues.The variable purchase patterns of ARI's railcar customers and the timing of completion, customer acceptance and shipment of orders may cause its revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which could result in significant fluctuations in our Railcar segment quarterly and annual results.Railcar sales comprised approximately 76%, 63% and 79% of our Railcar segment's total net sales and services revenues 37in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. ARI's results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected by the number and type of railcars manufactured and shipped in that period, which is impacted by customer needs that vary greatly year to year, as discussed above. The customer acceptance and title transfer or customer acceptance and shipment of ARI's railcars determine when it records the revenues associated with its railcar sales or leases. Given this, the timing of customer acceptance and title transfer or customer acceptance and shipment of ARI's railcars could cause fluctuations in our Railcar segment's quarterly and annual results. The railroads could potentially go on strike or have other service interruptions, which could ultimately create a bottleneck and potentially cause ARI to slow down or halt its shipment and production schedules, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of ARI's sales and operating results between quarterly periods within the same year and between quarterly periods within different years may not be meaningful and, as such, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of ARI's future performance.Some of ARI's railcar services and component manufacturing employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages by them or unions formed by some or all of ARI's other employees in the future could adversely affect our Railcar operations.As of December 31, 2011, the employees at ARI's sites covered by collective bargaining agreements, in the aggregate, represented approximately 14% of ARI's total workforce. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or ARI's potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot guarantee that ARI's relations with its union workforce will remain positive nor can we guarantee that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize ARI's railcar manufacturing employees or employees at some of its other facilities. If ARI's workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, ARI could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, ARI could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with layoffs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of its operations.ARI manufacturer's warranties expose it to potentially significant claims.ARI may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future relating to workmanship and materials. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to ARI's reputation, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. Unresolved warranty claims could result in users of its products bringing legal actions against ARI.If ARI is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, ARI's ability to compete in the market may be harmed.Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent ARI's competitors from duplicating its products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit ARI to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. As ARI expands internationally, through its joint ventures or otherwise, it becomes subject to the risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect ARI's intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S.Any of ARI's patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. ARI cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any reason. If ARI's patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded its products could be impaired, which could significantly impede its ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's pending or future patent applications may not result in an issued patent and, if patents are issued to ARI, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The U.S. Federal courts may invalidate ARI's patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around ARI's patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on ARI's sales. If ARI's intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, it may not be able to commercialize it technologies, products or services and its competitors could commercialize its technologies, which could result in a decrease in ARI's sales and market share and could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.ARI's products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that itself could be costly, result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and prevent ARI from using technology that is essential to its products.ARI cannot guarantee you that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other 38intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against ARI, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm its reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert ARI's management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of ARI's business. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or ARI's failure to license essential technology, its sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations.Food PackagingViskase faces competitors that are better capitalized than it is, and the continuous-flow nature of the casings manufacturing process forces competitors to compete based on price in order to maintain volume, which could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Viskase faces competition in the United States and internationally from competitors that may have substantially greater financial resources than it has. The cellulosic casings industry includes competitors that are larger and better capitalized than Viskase is. Currently, Viskase's primary competitors include Viscofan, S.A., Kalle Nalo GmbH and VT Holding Group, although new competitors could enter the market or competing products could be introduced. Although prices for small diameter cellulosic casings have experienced annual increases in recent years, and Viskase believes that the current output in its industry is generally in balance with global demand and that levels of capacity utilization are high, the continuous-flow nature of the casings manufacturing process has historically required competitors in its industry to compete based on price in order to maintain volume, which could result in lower pricing in future years. Viskase attempts to differentiate its products on the basis of product quality and performance, product development, service, sales and distribution, but Viskase and competitors in its industry have used price as a competitive factor in an attempt to obtain greater volumes. If prices decline, Viskase may not be able to achieve profitability, whereas certain of its competitors who are better capitalized may be positioned to absorb such price declines. Any of these factors could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Viskase receives its raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and problems with its suppliers could impair its ability to meet its customers' product demands.Viskase's principal raw materials, paper and pulp, constitute an important aspect and cost factor of its operations. Viskase generally purchases its paper and pulp from a single source or a small number of suppliers. Any inability of its suppliers to timely deliver raw materials or any unanticipated adverse change in its suppliers could be disruptive and costly to Viskase. Viskase's inability to obtain raw materials from its suppliers would require it to seek alternative sources. These alternative sources may not be adequate for all of Viskase's raw material needs, nor may adequate raw material substitutes exist in a form that its processes could be modified to use. These risks could materially and adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Viskase's failure to efficiently respond to industry changes in casings technology could jeopardize its ability to retain its customers and maintain its market share.Viskase and other participants in its industry have considered alternatives to cellulosic casings for many years. As resin technology improves or other technologies develop, alternative casings or other manufacturing methods may be developed that threaten the long-term sustainability and profitability of Viskase's cellulosic casings, which is its core product, and its fibrous casings. Viskase's failure to anticipate, develop or efficiently and timely integrate new technologies that provide viable alternatives to cellulosic casings, including plastic and film alternatives, may cause it to lose customers and market share to competitors integrating such technologies, which, in turn, would negatively impact our Food Packaging operations.Sales of Viskase's products could be negatively affected by problems or concerns with the safety and quality of food products.Viskase could be adversely affected if consumers in the food markets were to lose confidence in the safety and quality of meat or poultry products, particularly with respect to processed meat or poultry products for which casings are used, such as hot dogs, deli meats and sausages. Outbreaks of, or even adverse publicity about the possibility of, diseases such as avian influenza and “mad cow disease,” food-borne pathogens, such as E. coli and listeria, and any other food safety problems or concerns relating to meat and poultry products may discourage consumers from buying such products. These risks could also result in additional governmental regulations, or cause production and delivery disruptions or product recalls. Each of these risks could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations.Business interruptions at any of Viskase's production facilities could increase its operating costs, decrease its sales or cause it to lose customers.The reliability of Viskase's production facilities is critical to the success of its business. In recent years, Viskase has streamlined its productive capacity to be better aligned with its sales volumes. At current operating levels, Viskase has little or no excess production capacity for certain products. If the operations of any of its manufacturing facilities were interrupted or 39significantly delayed for any reason, including labor stoppages, Viskase may be unable to shift production to another facility without incurring a significant drop in production. Such a drop in production would negatively affect its sales and its relationships with its customers.Viskase's international sales and operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations, all of which could impair its ability to do business at the international level.Viskase currently has manufacturing or sales and distribution centers in eight foreign countries: Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Philippines and Poland. Its international sales and operations may be subject to various political and economic risks, including, but not limited to, possible unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations or hyperinflation; changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions; governmental regulations, including import and export controls; tariffs; limits on the repatriation of funds; and taxes. Viskase's sales to customers located outside the United States generally are subject to taxes on the repatriation of funds. In addition, international operations in certain parts of the world may be subject to international balance of payments difficulties that may raise the possibility of delay or loss in the collection of accounts receivable from sales to customers in those countries. Historically, net sales to customers located outside the United States represent the majority of Viskase's total net sales.Should any of these risks occur, it could impair Viskase's ability to export its products or conduct sales to customers located outside of the United States and result in a loss of sales and profits from its international operations.Continued consolidation of Viskase's customers and increasing competition for those customers may put pressure on its sales volumes and revenues.In recent years, the trend among Viskase's customers has been towards consolidation within the meat processing industry. These consolidations have enhanced the purchasing power of its customers who, not being contractually obligated to purchase its products, tend to exert increased pressure with respect to pricing terms, product quality and new products. As Viskase's customer base continues to consolidate, the already high level of competition for the business of fewer customers is expected to intensify. If Viskase does not continue to enhance the value of its product offering in a way that provides greater benefit to its customers, Viskase's sales volumes and revenues could decrease.Viskase's intellectual property rights may be inadequate or violated, or it may be subject to claims of infringement, both of which could negatively affect its financial condition.Viskase relies on a combination of trademarks, patents, trade secret rights and other rights to protect its intellectual property. Viskase's trademark or patent applications may not be approved and its trademarks or patents may be challenged by third parties. Viskase cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will prevent the misappropriation of its intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect its rights as fully as the laws of the United States. From time to time, it has been necessary for Viskase to enforce its intellectual property rights against infringements by third parties, and Viskase expects to continue to do so in the ordinary course of its business. Viskase also may be subjected to claims by others that it has violated their intellectual property rights. Even if Viskase prevails, third party-initiated or company-initiated claims may be time consuming and expensive to resolve, and may result in a diversion of Viskase's time and resources. The occurrence of any of these factors could diminish the value of its trademark, patent and intellectual property portfolio, increase competition within its industry and negatively impact its sales volume and revenues.A substantial portion of Viskase's business is conducted through foreign subsidiaries, and its failure to generate sufficient cash flow from these subsidiaries, or otherwise repatriate or receive cash from these subsidiaries, could result in its inability to repay its indebtedness.Viskase's sales to customers located outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside of the United States. Viskase's ability to meet its debt service obligations with cash from foreign subsidiaries will depend upon the results of operations of these subsidiaries and may be subject to contractual or other restrictions and other business considerations. In particular, to the extent Viskase's foreign subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness to expand its operations, the ability of its foreign subsidiaries to provide us cash may be limited. In addition, dividend and interest payments to Viskase from its foreign subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which would reduce the amount of funds it receives from such foreign subsidiaries. Dividends and other distributions from Viskase's foreign subsidiaries may also be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on repatriation, which could further reduce the amount of funds it receives from such foreign subsidiaries.MetalsThe principal markets served by our scrap metals business are highly competitive. We may have difficulty competing with companies that have a lower cost structure than ours.Our scrap metals business operates in a highly competitive environment. We primarily provide products and services to 40industrial companies. Many other companies offer the same or similar products and services and compete with our metals business on a number of bases including, but not limited to: (i) price; (ii) quality of service; (iii) proximity to the consumer; (iv) proximity to sources of supply; (v) local or regional presence; (vi) technology; (vii) safety performance; and (viii) financial strength. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources or are larger and have more diverse businesses. In addition, we also face increased competition from steel mills that are vertically integrated into the scrap metal business. Some of our foreign competitors may be able to pursue business opportunities without regard for the laws and regulations with which we must comply, such as environmental regulations. These companies may have a lower cost structure, and more operating flexibility and consequently they may be able to offer better prices and more services than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. In addition to larger companies, we compete with many smaller competitors operating locally in this highly fragmented market. Some of these smaller companies may have lower operating costs and may be able to compete more effectively on price.Prices of commodities are volatile and markets are competitive.Our Metals segment is exposed to commodity price risk during the period that it has title to products that are held in inventory for processing and/or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond PSC Metals' control, including:•general economic conditions;•labor costs;•domestic and import competition;•financial condition of its major customers;•access and costs associated with transportation systems;•the availability and relative pricing of scrap metal substitutes; and•import duties, ocean freight costs, tariffs and currency exchange rates.In an increasing purchase price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit PSC Metals' ability to pass on price increases to its consumers. In a decreasing sales price environment for processed scrap, PSC Metals may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw scrap metal it processes and sells to its customers. New entrants into its markets could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our scrap metals. Prices in the scrap metal industry are established and adjusted monthly by the major steel producers. The price of ferrous scrap is a significant factor influencing the profitability of the scrap metals industry.Our Metals segment operates in industries that are cyclical and demand can be volatile. Adverse conditions in the steel industry could negatively affect demand for its materials.The operating results of the scrap metals recycling industry in general, and PSC Metals' operations specifically, are highly cyclical and dependent on general domestic and international economic conditions. Historically, in periods of national recession or slowing economic growth, the operating results of scrap metals recycling companies have been materially and adversely affected. Ferrous and non-ferrous scrap has been historically vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn. As a result of the recent global economic crisis and uneven recoveries in the steel, automotive, industrial equipment, construction and other industries, PSC Metals has experienced significant fluctuations in supply, demand and pricing for its products, which could continue to adversely affect our Metals operations. Increases in steel imports and decreases in scrap exports could adversely affect the demand for scrap metals domestically.Our scrap metals business may be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the United States, which will have an adverse impact on domestic steel production and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for scrap metals domestically. Our scrap metals business may be adversely affected by decreases of scrap exports out of the United States to export markets such as Turkey, China, South Korea, India and Vietnam which could negatively impact demand prices for scrap metals globally. Additionally, our scrap metals business could be negatively affected by strengthening in the U.S. dollar or increased freight costs which could negatively impact export sales and a stronger U.S. dollar could also attract imports of scrap or scrap substitutes, reducing demand for our scrap metals.A significant increase in the use of scrap metals alternatives by consumers of processed scrap metals could reduce demand for PSC Metals' products.During periods of high demand for scrap metals, tightness can develop in the supply and demand for ferrous scrap. The relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly prime or industrial grades, and its high price during such periods have created opportunities for producers of alternatives to scrap metals, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets and others. We 41cannot assure you that the use of alternatives to scrap metals may not proliferate in the future if the prices for scrap metals rise, if the supplies of available unprepared ferrous scrap tighten or if costs to import scrap decline precipitously.Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our consumers. PSC Metals' ability to process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its facilities. In addition, its products are usually transported to customers by third-party truck, rail carriers and barge services. As a result, PSC Metals relies on the timely and uninterrupted performance of third-party shipping companies. Any interruption in its operations or interruption or delay in transportation services could cause orders to be canceled, delivered late, or receipt of goods to be refused or result in higher transportation costs. As a result, PSC Metals' relationships with its customers and its revenues and results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The profitability of our scrap recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply.As part of our scrap metals business, PSC Metals procures scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to PSC Metals. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their scrap sales activities. If a substantial number of scrap suppliers cease selling scrap metals to PSC Metals, its scrap metals business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the slowdown of industrial production and U.S. consumer consumption during the recent economic crisis has reduced and is expected to continue to reduce the supply of industrial grades of scrap metal available to PSC Metals. If the supply of scrap metal is limited, PSC Metals would be unable to recycle scrap metals at necessary volumes which could adversely affect our Metals operations. PSC Metals may pursue acquisitions that involve inherent risks, which may cause it not to realize anticipated benefits. Additionally PSC Metals may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions. PSC Metals has completed a number of recent acquisitions and it expects to continue making acquisitions of complementary businesses that enhance its customer base and related markets. Execution of its acquisition strategy involves a number of risks including:•inaccurate assessment of or undisclosed liabilities;•difficulty integrating the personnel and operations of the acquired businesses;•potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses;•difficulties in realizing anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and synergies;•inability to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures;•managing the growth of a larger company; and•diversion of our management's attention from our everyday business activities. Our scrap metals business presents significant risk of injury or death.Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at PSC Metals' facilities, there exists a risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors notwithstanding the safety precautions PSC Metals takes. PSC Metals' scrap metals business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. While PSC Metals has in place policies to minimize such risks, it may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any death or injury that may occur in the future and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our Metals operations.Our scrap metals business is subject to stringent regulations, particularly under applicable environmental laws.PSC Metals is subject to comprehensive local, state and federal statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among others:•the acceptance, storage, handling and disposal of solid, hazardous and Toxic Substances Control Act waste;•the discharge of materials into the air;•the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water;•the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination;•the restoration of natural resource damages; and•the protection of its employees' health and safety.42PSC Metals believes that it is currently in material compliance with applicable statutes and regulations governing the protection of human health and the environment, including employee health and safety. We can give you no assurance, however, that PSC Metals will continue to be in material compliance or avoid material fines, penalties and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future.Such laws and regulations also require manifests to be completed and delivered in connection with any shipment of prescribed materials so that the movement and disposal of such materials can be traced and the persons responsible for any mishandling of such materials identified. Regulatory requirements may also be imposed as conditions of operating permits or licenses both initially and upon renewal or modification. As part of its scrap metals business, PSC Metals must properly remove, handle, recycle or dispose of waste materials or incur liability. Transportation, transfer, storage and disposal of waste are difficult and accidents may occur. These laws and regulations are stringent and are likely to become more stringent. Existing and new laws and regulations may require our scrap metals business to modify, supplement, replace or curtail its operating methods or to modify or replace facilities or equipment at costs that may be substantial without any corresponding increase in revenues.Hazardous substances are present in some of the processing, transfer and storage facilities owned or leased by our scrap metal business and landfill facilities used by our scrap metals business. Remediation may be required at these sites at substantial cost. We cannot assure you that the ultimate cost and expense of corrective action will not substantially exceed any reserves and have a material adverse impact on our Metals operations. In addition, governments have from time to time required companies to remediate sites where materials were properly disposed because those governments have instituted higher standards.PSC Metals is required to obtain, and must comply with, various permits and licenses to conduct our scrap metals business. Failure to obtain or violations of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in PSC Metals incurring substantial fines, suspension of our scrap metals business or closure of a site. Further, our scrap metals business is conducted primarily outdoors and as such, depending on the nature of the ground cover, involves the risk of releases of wastes and other regulated materials to the soil and, possibly, to groundwater. From time to time, as part of its continuous improvement programs, PSC Metals incurs costs to improve environmental control systems.Our scrap metals business may be subject to public opposition and adverse publicity that could delay or limit our scrap metals development and expansion.A high level of public concern exists over industrial by-products recovery operations, including the location and operation of transfer, processing, storage and disposal facilities and the collection, processing or handling of industrial by-products and waste materials, particularly hazardous materials. Zoning, permit and licensing applications and proceedings and regulatory enforcement proceedings are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. As a result, from time to time, our scrap metals business may be subject to citizen opposition and adverse publicity that may have a negative effect on operations and delay or limit the expansion and developing of operating properties, and could have a material adverse effect on our scrap metals operation.PSC Metals may be unable to obtain adequate environmental insurance.Our scrap metals business is subject to potential liability for personal injuries and property damage caused by releases of hazardous substances and for remediation of risks posed by hazardous substances. Consistent with industry trends, PSC Metals may be unable to obtain an adequate amount of environmental impairment insurance for its scrap metals business at a reasonable premium to cover liability to third persons for environmental damage. Accordingly, if our scrap metals business were to incur liability for environmental damage either not provided for under such coverage or in excess of such coverage, our Metals operations could be materially or adversely affected.Increasing energy and freight costs could increase PSC Metal's operating costs.The availability and cost of freight and energy, such as electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel, is important in the manufacture and transport of PSC Metals' products. Its operations consume substantial amounts of energy, and its operating costs generally increase when energy costs rise. Factors that may affect PSC Metals' energy costs include significant increases in fuel, oil or natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power or other energy sources due to droughts, hurricanes or other natural causes or due to shortages resulting from insufficient supplies to serve customers, or interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes. During periods of increasing energy and freight costs, PSC Metals may be unable to fully recover its operating cost increases through price increases without reducing demand for its products. PSC Metals' financial results could be adversely affected if it is unable to pass these increases on to its customers or if it is unable to obtain the necessary freight and energy. 43Our scrap metals operations are outside and affected by severe changes in the weather. Severe weather or equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns.All of PSC Metals' scrap yards can be affected by severe weather and yards that are located adjacent to rivers are subject to potential flooding, all of which can result in production curtailments or shutdowns, which could adversely impact our Metals operations. Our scrap metals business' recycling and manufacturing processes depend, in part, upon shredders, which could be out of service temporarily as a result of unanticipated failures. As a result, PSC Metals may experience interruptions in its scrap metals business' processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our Metals operations.Real EstateEconomic downturns may have an adverse effect on the real estate market more than on other industries and its recovery may lag behind the economy as a whole.Sales of our vacation properties in New Seabury, Massachusetts and Florida rely heavily on favorable credit markets and a robust economy. Sale or leasing, including lease renewals, of the commercial properties in our net lease portfolio also rely heavily on financially healthy buyers and tenants. During economic downturns, the value of our real estate portfolio may decline. We cannot assure that our Real Estate operations will be able to recoup its investments in its residential properties or continue to sell or lease its commercial properties at profitable rates. If commercial real estate leases expire during an economic downturn, there can be no assurance that the renewed rents will equal or exceed prior rents, and cost of tenant improvements and other costs would adversely impact property values. Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated.Our Real Estate segment has invested and expects to continue to invest in unentitled land, undeveloped land and distressed development properties. These properties involve more risk than properties on which development has been completed. Unentitled land may not be approved for development. These investments do not generate any operating revenue, while costs are incurred to obtain government approvals and develop the properties. Construction may not be completed within budget or as scheduled and projected rental levels or sales prices may not be achieved and other unpredictable contingencies beyond the control of our Real Estate operations could occur. Our Real Estate segment will not be able to recoup any of such costs until such time as these properties, or parcels thereof, are either disposed of or developed into income-producing assets.Our Real Estate operations may face adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies.The bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants in our retail, industrial and office properties may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If a tenant defaults, our Real Estate operations may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, our Real Estate operations cannot evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject or terminate its lease with us. Our Real Estate operations may also incur additional vacancy and other re-tenanting expense.Our Real Estate operations may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of development and rental real estate.Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants released on, under, in or from its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. To the extent any such substances are found in or on any property invested in by us, our Real Estate segment could be exposed to liability and be required to incur substantial remediation costs. The presence of such substances or the failure to undertake proper remediation may adversely affect the ability to finance, refinance or dispose of such property. Our Real Estate segment generally conducts a Phase I environmental site assessment on properties in which it is considering investing. A Phase I environmental site assessment involves record review, visual site assessment and personnel interviews, but does not typically include invasive testing procedures such as air, soil or groundwater sampling or other tests performed as part of a Phase II environmental site assessment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any assessments conducted will disclose all potential liabilities or that future property uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or activities at nearby properties will not result in the creation of environmental liabilities with respect to a property.A rising interest rate environment may reduce values of rental real estate properties. A rising interest rate environment may negatively impact values and rental rates may not be able to be raised in a timely manner or at all in order to offset the negative impact on values of increasing rates.44Home FashionWPI has had a history of sales declines, net losses and negative cash flow from operations. In fiscal 2011 WPI generated positive cash flows from operations for the first time. However, WPI can provide no assurance that it will ever generate income or continue to provide positive cash flows from operations.WPI has had a history of significant net losses. In addition, our Home Fashion segment has not generated positive cash flows from its operations until fiscal 2011. For fiscal 2011, our Home Fashion segment generated positive cash flow from operations of $21 million, primarily due to changes in working capital. For fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, our Home fashion segment had net cash used in operating activities of $50 million and $54 million, respectively.We can provide no assurance that our Home Fashion segment will ever generate income or continue to generate positive cash flows from operations. Unless WPI is able to continue to generate positive cash flows from its operations, WPI will continue to require external financing to operate its business, for which WPI has no commitments after June 2012 when its revolving credit agreement expires.In light of the recent operating performance and challenging industry conditions, our Home Fashion segment is considering various strategic alternatives which may include, without limitation, joint ventures, other forms of strategic alliances and/or a sale or divestiture of all or a significant portion of its assets. In light of WPI's recent operating performance and challenging industry conditions, we are considering various strategic alternatives which may include, without limitation, joint ventures, other forms of strategic alliances, and/or a sale or divestiture of all or a significant portion of WPI's assets. We cannot determine whether any of these transactions will be consummated or, if so, upon what terms. Any sale of WPI may result in consideration that is materially less than the carrying value of our investment in WPI. WPI has a limited operating history and acquired its business from the former owners through bankruptcy proceedings in 2005. Certain of the issues that contributed to WestPoint Stevens filing for bankruptcy continue to affect WPI's business operations and financial condition.WPI commenced operations on August 8, 2005 concurrent with the acquisition of assets from WestPoint Stevens as part of its bankruptcy reorganization. Certain of the issues that contributed to WestPoint Stevens' filing for bankruptcy, such as intense industry competition, the inability to produce goods at a cost competitive with overseas suppliers, the increasing prevalence of direct sourcing by principal customers and continued incurrence of overhead costs associated with an enterprise larger than the current business can profitably support, continue to exist and may continue to adversely affect our Home Fashion operations.WPI cannot assure you that it will be able to extend, enlarge or replace WPI's current credit facility when it expires in June 2012.WestPoint Home's current credit facility with Bank of America expires in June 2012. If WPI is unable to extend or enlarge this facility or obtain a replacement facility or other alternative financing, WPI may not have financing to fund its working capital needs, capital expenditures and other requirements of its business through the next twelve months. If WPI is able to extend this facility or obtain a replacement facility, the terms may be less advantageous than the terms of the current facility. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the growth of WPI's business and on WPI's financial position and operating results.From time to time WPI may explore additional financing methods and other means to make needed investments. Such financing methods could include debt financing. If WPI's business does not improve, it is likely that this financing would be available only on terms that are not advantageous. WPI cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to it on acceptable terms.If WPI is able to obtain the financing it needs, the terms of the financing as well as any resulting increased indebtedness may impose operating and financial restrictions on WPI and may have adverse consequences to our Home Fashion operations.WPI is exploring alternative sources of financing, any of which, if obtained, are expected to impose various operating and financial restrictions on WPI. If WPI is successful in obtaining the financing it needs through incurring additional indebtedness, this could have adverse consequences to WPI, and consequently, our Home Fashion operations. The home fashion industry is cyclical, seasonal and highly correlated to home sales.The home fashion industry is both cyclical and seasonal, which affects WPI's performance. Traditionally, the home fashion industry is seasonal, with a peak sales season in the fall. In response to this seasonality, WPI increases its inventory levels during the first six months of the year to meet customer demands for the peak fall season. In addition, the home fashion 45industry is traditionally cyclical and WPI's performance may be negatively affected by downturns in consumer spending. The home fashion industry is also highly correlated to home sales, and WPI's performance has been negatively affected by the downturn in this market.The loss of any of WPI's large customers could have an adverse effect on its business.During fiscal 2011, WPI had seven customers that accounted for approximately 63% of its net sales. Other retailers have indicated that they intend to significantly increase their direct sourcing of home fashion products from foreign sources. The loss of any of WPI's largest accounts, or a material portion of sales to those accounts, would have an adverse effect upon WPI's business, which could be material.A substantial portion of WPI's sales are derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect on its business.A substantial portion of WPI's sales is derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have a material adverse effect on its business. The only licensed brand that contributed greater than 10% of WPI's net sales for each of fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 was “Ralph Lauren,” which contributed approximately $61 million, $137 million, and $113 million, respectively, during such periods. The license agreements for these designer brands generally are for a term of two or three years. Some of the licenses are automatically renewable for additional periods, provided that sales thresholds set forth in the license agreements are met. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect upon WPI's business, which effect could be material. Under certain circumstances, these licenses can be terminated without WPI's consent due to circumstances beyond WPI's control.WPI currently operates as a licensee to Ralph Lauren Home in the product categories of utility bedding and blankets. As a result of an ongoing strategic effort on the part of Ralph Lauren to take certain of its licensed businesses in-house, WPI's license with Ralph Lauren in such categories (other than utility bedding and blankets) terminated on April 30, 2011. WPI will continue to supply fashion bed and bath products, made at WPI's facility in Bahrain and at its joint venture facility in Pakistan to Ralph Lauren as a vendor, rather than a licensee. WPI's license with Ralph Lauren in the utility bedding and blanket categories, which was set to expire on December 31, 2010, has been extended to December 31, 2012. There is no assurance that in the aggregate the revenue stream from new sales to Ralph Lauren in the future that result from WPI's new role as a vendor to Ralph Lauren will equal the aggregate revenue stream generated from WPI acting as a licensee in prior years.During fiscal 2010 there was a shortage of the principal raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products, particularly cotton and cotton yarn that forced WPI to pay significantly more for those materials. Any similar or future shortages would increase WPI's cost of goods and cause WPI to increase its prices, which could have an adverse effect on WPI's operations, and, to the extent WPI is not able to pass the cost increases to its customers, the margins on WPI products will be decreased. Any shortage in the raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could adversely affect WPI's operations. The principal raw materials that WPI uses in the manufacture of its products are cotton of various grades and staple lengths and polyester and nylon in staple and filament form. During fiscal 2010, there was a shortage of cotton and cotton yarn that forced WPI to pay significantly more for those materials. The shortage has been somewhat mitigated since the first half of fiscal 2011. The shortages resulted from weather problems in Pakistan, which decreased cotton production, as well as increased internal usage in India and China. In addition, these countries, as well as other countries in the region, decreased exports to protect domestic supplies. Furthermore, the shortages experienced resulted in the unwillingness of many producers to enter into long-term supply agreements, which resulted in increased price volatility. These shortages further resulted in increased prices for other raw materials, including polyester and nylon. The increases in production costs negatively affected WPI's operating margins for fiscal 2010 and the first half of fiscal 2011. In addition, limited availability in freight transportation options have on occasion increased WPI's aggregate costs of raw materials. WPI has not historically been able to pass all these cost increases to its customers through increased prices and, when that is the case, the margins on WPI's products have decreased. To the extent WPI increases the prices of its products to take into account any increased costs, WPI's sales may be negatively affected. Any shortage event may also impact the availability of raw materials, thereby adversely impacting the timing and volume of WPI net sales. The home fashion industry is very competitive and WPI's success depends on its ability to compete effectively in its market.The home fashion industry is highly competitive. WPI's future success will, to a large extent, depend on its ability to be a low-cost producer and to remain competitive. WPI competes with both foreign and domestic companies on the basis of price, quality and customer service. WPI's future success depends on its ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. Any failure to compete effectively could adversely affect WPI's sales and, accordingly, our Home Fashion operations. Additionally, the easing of trade restrictions over time has led to growing competition from low-priced products imported from Asia and Latin America. The lifting of import quotas in 2005 has accelerated the loss of WPI's market share. 46WPI has increased the percentage of its products that are made overseas. There is no assurance that WPI will be successful in obtaining goods of sufficient quality on a timely basis and on advantageous terms. WPI is subject to additional risks relating to doing business overseas.WPI has increased the percentage of its products that is made overseas and faces additional risks associated with these efforts. WPI currently has a manufacturing facility that it owns through a subsidiary in Bahrain and a manufacturing facility that WPI partially owns pursuant to a joint venture in Pakistan. WPI also has a sourcing office in China and purchases from manufacturers in many foreign countries. WPI has only limited experience in overseas procurement and, accordingly, WPI cannot assure you that it will be successful in obtaining goods of sufficient quality on a timely basis and on advantageous terms. Recent civil unrest in Bahrain has not affected WPI's operations in that country to date, but we cannot assure you that future events in Bahrain or the other foreign countries in which WPI has operations will not have a material adverse effect on WPI's business and foreign assets and the cost or availability of its goods.There has been consolidation of retailers of home fashion products that may reduce WPI's profitability.The consolidation of retailers of consumer goods has resulted in certain retailers having a greater ability to secure more favorable terms from vendors. Retailers' pricing leverage has resulted in a decline in WPI's unit pricing and margins and resulted in a shift in product mix to more private label programs. If WPI is unable to diminish the decline in its pricing and margins, WPI may not be able to achieve profitability.WPI continues to restructure its operations but these efforts may not be successful.To improve WPI's competitive position, WPI intends to continue to significantly reduce its cost of goods sold by restructuring some of WPI's remaining operations in the plants located in the United States, increasing production within WPI's non-U.S. facilities and joint venture operation and sourcing goods from lower-cost overseas facilities and vendors. There is no assurance that WPI will be successful in its continuing restructuring efforts, the failure of which could adversely impact WPI's profitability and ability to compete effectively.The retail industry in the United States is highly competitive and subject to the various economic cycles of consumer demand. WPI is subject to the retailers' demand for products as manifest by underlying consumer spending. WPI may incur adverse financial consequences if WPI's retail customers experience adverse financial results.Retailers of consumer goods are dependent upon consumer spending. In turn, consumer spending is broadly a function of the overall economic environment. Given the weaknesses in the overall economy, and in the home sales market specifically, the level of consumer retail spending for home textile products is likely to decline, which would have an adverse impact on WPI's business and financial results. In the current unsettled economic environment, the indicators are that consumers are not purchasing discretionary goods to the extent they have in the past. To the extent that retailers of consumer goods are faced with financial difficulties due to weakened consumer demand, depending upon the amount of business that WPI does with any such customer, WPI's financial results may be adversely affected. This adverse impact could arise out of the potential recoverability of a receivable from a financially impaired retailer or from a customer doing less business with WPI. WPI believes it maintains adequate receivable reserves for specifically known events and an overall general provision for unknown circumstances. However, depending upon the magnitude of any future unknown event, these reserves may not be sufficient.WPI is subject to various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. If WPI does not comply with these laws, rules and regulations, it may incur significant costs in the future to become compliant.WPI is subject to various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign laws, rules and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge, storage, handling, usage and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes used in, or resulting from, WPI's operations, including potential remediation obligations under those laws and regulations. WPI's operations are also governed by U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to employee safety and health which, among other things, establish exposure limitations for cotton dust, formaldehyde, asbestos and noise, and which regulate chemical, physical and ergonomic hazards in the workplace. Although WPI does not expect that compliance with any of these laws, rules and regulations will materially adversely affect our Home Fashion operations, WPI cannot assure you that regulatory requirements will not become more stringent in the future or that WPI will not incur significant costs to comply with those requirements.Holding Company InvestmentsWe may not be able to identify suitable investments, and our investments may not result in favorable returns or may result in losses.Our partnership agreement allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities we believe exist outside of our 47operating businesses. The equity securities in which we may invest may include common stock, preferred stock and securities convertible into common stock, as well as warrants to purchase these securities. The debt securities in which we may invest may include bonds, debentures, notes or non-rated mortgage-related securities, municipal obligations, bank debt and mezzanine loans. Certain of these securities may include lower rated or non-rated securities, which may provide the potential for higher yields and therefore may entail higher risk and may include the securities of bankrupt or distressed companies. In addition, we may engage in various investment techniques, including derivatives, options and futures transactions, foreign currency transactions, “short” sales and leveraging for either hedging or other purposes. We may concentrate our activities by owning significant or controlling interest in certain investments. We may not be successful in finding suitable opportunities to invest our cash and our strategy of investing in undervalued assets may expose us to numerous risks.We have entered into a covered affiliate agreement, pursuant to which we (and certain of our subsidiaries) have agreed, in general, to be bound by certain restrictions on our investments in any assets that the General Partners deem suitable for the Investment Funds, other than government and agency bonds, cash equivalents and investments in non-public companies. We and our subsidiaries will not be restricted from making investments in the securities of certain companies in which Mr. Icahn or companies he controlled had an interest in as of the date of the initial launch of the Investment Funds, and companies in which we had an interest as of the date of the acquisition of the partnership interests on August 8, 2007 of our Investment business. We and our subsidiaries, either alone or acting together with a group, will not be restricted from (i) acquiring all or any portion of the assets of any public company in connection with a negotiated transaction or series of related negotiated transactions or (ii) engaging in a negotiated merger transaction with a public company and, pursuant thereto, conducting and completing a tender offer for securities of the company.We have made significant investments in the Investment Funds and negative performance of the Investment Funds may result in a significant decline in the value of our investments.We have interests aggregating approximately $3.1 billion in the Investment Funds. If the Investment Funds experience negative performance, the value of these investments will be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial position.Our investments may be subject to significant uncertainties.Our investments may not be successful for many reasons, including, but not limited to:•fluctuations of interest rates;•lack of control in minority investments;•worsening of general economic and market conditions;•lack of diversification;•the success of the Investment Funds' activist strategies;•fluctuations of U.S. dollar exchange rates; and•adverse legal and regulatory developments that may affect particular businesses.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.48