ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The Company has a history of significant losses. If we do not sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. Although the Company reported net income of $998,000 for fiscal year 2007, the Company has a history of losses and may incur losses in the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $2,376,000 and $6,049,000 for fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of September 30, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $91,051,000. If revenues do not reach the levels the Company anticipates, or if operating expenses exceed the Company’s expectations, the Company may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the near future or at all. If the Company is unable to achieve and sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, its financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. The Company will be controlled by ERP2 Holdings, LLC as long as they are entitled to a majority of the votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors. As of January 13, 2008, ERP2 Holdings, LLC ("ERP2"), by virtue of its ownership of common stock and Series F Preferred Stock, was entitled to 32,554,099, or 59%, of the total number of votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors. Furthermore, on January 14, 2008, the board of directors of the Company declared a dividend payable to ERP2 in the amount of 20,827,268 shares of common stock in satisfaction of the entire amount of accrued and unpaid dividends (together with interest) on the shares of the Company's Series F Convertible Preferred Stock held by ERP2. Upon payment of such dividend, ERP2 will be entitled to 50,044,406 or 69% of the total number of votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors. ERP2 therefore currently has the ability to elect a majority of the Company’s board of directors and to remove the entire board of directors, with or without cause, without calling a special meeting. Moreover, even if the percentage of the voting power of the voting securities of the Company held by ERP2 were to drop below 50%, it is likely that ERP2 would have sufficient votes to retain control of the Company. As a result, ERP2 will likely continue to control all matters affecting the Company, including but not limited to: · the composition of the Company’s board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to the Company’s business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; · the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for the Company and ERP2 ; · any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations or extraordinary transactions; · the Company’s acquisition or disposition of assets; and · the Company’s financing. · ERP2 is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party. Upon a liquidation of the Company, sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, or merger of the Company, the Company’s preferred shareholders would be entitled to receive substantial payments prior to any distribution to the common shareholders. 8 Upon a liquidation of the Company, the holders of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock would be entitled to receive, prior to any distribution to the holders of common stock, an aggregate amount equal to $5,291,000 plus accrued but unpaid dividends per share and interest on all such dividends. Upon a liquidation of the Company, sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, or merger of the Company, prior to any distribution or payment of merger consideration to the holders of common stock, the holders of Series I Convertible Preferred Stock would be entitled to receive an aggregate amount equal to the higher of (i) $2,450,000 and (ii) the amount such holders would be entitled to receive had such holders’ shares of Series I Preferred Stock been converted into shares of common stock immediately prior to the liquidation, sale of assets or merger in accordance with the terms of the Series I Preferred Stock. The Company's indebtedness to ERP2 Holdings, LLC is secured by all the Company's assets, and the Company may become insolvent if repayment of such debt is due prior to the Company’s ability to obtain funds to repay such debt or if the Company fails to restructure such debt. At December 31, 2007, the Company owed, including accrued but unpaid interest, an aggregate amount of $693,000 to ERP2 Holdings, LLC ("ERP2") under two demand notes. Interest accrues on such debt at an annual interest rate of 10%, and such debt is secured by a security interest in favor of ERP2 on all of the Company’s assets. On January 14, 2008, the Company entered into a term sheet with ERP2 that provides, among other things, for the concurrent consummation (the “ERP2 Closing”) of the following transactions: (i) the extension of the maturity date of the existing demand notes to the date that is two years from the date of the ERP2 Closing; (ii) the agreement of ERP2 not to call such demand notes, as extended, following an event of default, prior to September 30, 2008; and (iii) the issuance of additional notes to ERP2 in the aggregate principal amount of $1,500,000 with a maturity date two years from the date of the ERP2 Closing. Interest will accrue on the Company’s debt under the notes so extended or issued at an annual rate of 10%, and such debt will be secured by a security interest in favor of ERP2 on all of the Company’s assets. Disbursement of $300,000 of such aggregate principal amount is subject to delivery at the ERP2 Closing of definitive transaction documents pursuant to the term sheet. Disbursement of the remaining $1,200,000 of such amount is subject to completion of all actions required to be completed by the Company in order to effectuate a 1000-to-1 reverse split of the Company’s common stock and the deregistration of the Company’s common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If the Company fails to complete such actions by April 30, 2008, such failure will constitute an event of default under the extended demand notes and under the additional notes contemplated by the term sheet. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from its operations, secure funds from the capital markets or lenders or restructure its debt to ERP2 prior to the time that the debt under the demand notes, as extended, and the additional notes contemplated by the term sheet become due, the Company will become insolvent. Financing to fund the Company’s future capital requirements may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The Company and ERP2 have entered into a term sheet that contemplates the extension by ERP2 to the Company of a $1,500,000 loan, the disbursement of which, as discussed above, is subject to certain conditions. The Company, however, may need financing in the future in addition to any funding received from ERP2 pursuant to such term sheet, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all from any source. The Company believes its capital requirements will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on, among other things, capital expenditures, fluctuations in its operating results, financing activities, and investments and third party products and receivables management. The Company’s future liquidity will depend on financing from ERP2 and its ability to generate new system sales of its eB product suite in the near term, which cannot be assured. Failure to generate sufficient system sales to meet the Company’s cash flow needs can be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Management believes that the Company’s current cash and receivables, as well as additional cash that may be generated from operations and received from ERP2 pursuant to the above-referenced term sheet, will be sufficient to meet its short-term needs for working capital. However, the Company may not be able to obtain sufficient orders to enable the Company to achieve a sustained break-even level of cash flow, which would be necessary to continue operations in the absence of further financing. Future equity financings would be dilutive to the existing holders of the Company’s common stock. Future debt financings could involve restrictive covenants. Moreover, the Company may not be able to attract equity or debt financing at all. The Company is party to a term sheet with ERP2 Holdings, LLC that contemplates the consummation of a 1000-to-1 reverse split of the Company’s common stock; in the event the reverse split is consummated, (i) certain shareholders will receive a cash payment in exchange for some or all of their common shares; (ii) the trading liquidity of the common shares could be adversely effected; (iii) the total market capitalization of the common sharesafter the reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before the reverse stock split; (iv) the market price of the common shares may become subject to greater declines on a percentage basis; and (v) some shareholders may consequently own “odd lots” requiring higher transaction costs to sell. The Company is party to a term sheet with ERP2 Holdings, LLC (“ERP2”), which provides, among other things, for the extension to the Company by ERP2 of a $1,500,000 loan, of which $1,200,000 is subject to disbursement only upon completion of all actions required to be completed by the Company in order to effectuate a 1000-to-1 reverse split of the Company’s common stock (as well as the subsequent deregistration of the Company’s common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). In the event the Company fails to complete such actions prior to April 30, 2008, an event of default will exist with respect to the loan. ERP2, following payment to ERP2 of a dividend on the shares of the Company’s Series F Convertible Preferred Stock held by ERP2 that the Company declared on January 14, 2008, will possess sufficient voting power to ensure the requisite shareholder approval of such reverse stock split. In the event the reverse split contemplated by the term sheet is consummated, each shareholder will be entitled to receive that number of post-split common shares calculated by dividing their pre-split common share holdings by 1,000 and rounding down to the nearest whole number. If the total number of pre-split common shares that a shareholder holds is not evenly divisible by 1,000, the shareholder will receive cash equal to the fraction of a post-split common share that the shareholder otherwise would have been entitled to receive, multiplied by a value determined by the Company’s board of directors to represent the approximate market value of 1,000 common shares prior to consummation of the split. Consummation of the reverse stock split would reduce the number of issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock by a factor of one-thousand. Such reduction could lead to reduced trading volume of and a smaller number of market makers for the common shares, thereby adversely affecting the trading liquidity of the common shares. In the event the reverse stock split is consummated, there can be no assurancesthat the market price of the Company’s common sharesafter the reverse stock split will increase in proportion to the reduction in the number of common shares issued and outstanding before the reverse stock split. For example, based on the closing price on the OTC Bulletin Board of the Company’s common shares on January 9, 2008 of $0.07per share, if the reverse stock splitis consummated, there can be no assurancesthat the post-split market price of the Company’s common shares would be at least $70.00per share. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of the Company’s common shares after the proposed reverse stock split may be lower than the total market capitalization before the proposed reverse stock split. Furthermore, if the reverse stock split is consummated and the market price of the Company’s common shares subsequently declines, the percentage decline may be greater than would occur in the absence of the reverse split. In the event the reverse stock split is consummated, some shareholders may consequently own less than 100 shares of the Company’s common stock.A purchase or sale of less than 100 shares (an “odd lot” transaction) may result in incrementally higher tradingcosts through certain brokers. Therefore, those shareholders who own less than 100 common shares following the reverse stock split may be required to pay higher transaction costs if they shoulddetermine to sell their shares. 9 The Company is party to a term sheet with ERP2 Holdings, LLC that contemplates the deregistration of the Company’s common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; in the event the deregistration is consummated, (i) the Company will no longer make public filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the Company’s common stock will no longer be eligible for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, and there may cease to be any public market for the Company’s common stock. The Company is party to a term sheet with ERP2 Holdings, LLC (“ERP2”), which provides, among other things, for the extension to the Company by ERP2 of a $1,500,000 loan, of which $1,200,000 will be subject to disbursement only upon completion of all actions required to be completed by the Company in order to effectuate the deregistration of the Company’s common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) (as well as a 1000-to-1 reverse split of the Company’s common stock, contemplated to occur prior to such deregistration). In the event the Company fails to complete such actions prior to April 30, 2008, an event of default will exist with respect to the loan. In the event the deregistration contemplated by the term sheet is consummated, the Company will no longer be subject to public reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, including any requirements to file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, or current reports on Form 8-K. Consequently, following any such deregistration, there will not be made available to the public current financial or other information concerning the Company, except such information, if any, as the Company may choose to voluntarily disclose or be required to disclose pursuant to applicable legal requirements. Although the Company anticipates that, immediately following any such deregistration, its common stock will be quoted in the Pink Sheets, there can be no assurances that such quotation of the Company’s common stock will occur or continue for any period of time. Rule 15c2-11 under Exchange Act requires brokers to obtain certain information and assess its reliability before publishing quotations for securities that are not registered under the Exchange Act. As indicated above, following deregistration, the Company will be under no obligation to make public filings under the Exchange Act, and any information that the Company makes available to the public may not include all of the information that a broker would need to have available in order to publish quotations of the Company’s common stock under Rule 15c2-11. Accordingly, quotations for the Company’s common stock in the Pink Sheets may cease to be published if brokers determine that the available information about the Company is no longer current. In that case, there would be no public market for the Company’s common stock, and stockholders may be unable to sell shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company is dependent on sales to a relatively small number of new customers each quarter, so any failure to close a sale to any customer could have a material adverse effect on its quarterly operating results. A small number of customers has typically accounted, and will continue in the future to account, for a large percentage of the Company’s annual revenues. Aveva Solutions Limited and Network Rail accounted for 25% and 12%, respectively, of revenue for fiscal 2007. Constellation Energy Group accounted for 13% of revenue for fiscal 2006. Network Rail accounted 16% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2005. Because of the Company’s reliance on sales to relatively few customers, the loss of any sale could have a material adverse effect on the results of its operations on any given quarter. Additionally, a significant portion of the Company’s revenues has historically been, and is expected in the future to be, derived from the sale of systems to new customers. The Company generally incurs significant marketing and sales expense prior to entering into a contract with a new customer that generates revenues. The length of time it takes to establish a new customer relationship typically ranges from 6 to 12 months. As such, the Company may incur significant expenses associated with its sales efforts directed to prospective customers in any particular period before any associated revenues stream begins. If the Company is not successful at obtaining significant new customers or if a small number of customers cancel or delay their orders for its products, then its business and its prospects could be harmed which may cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. In fiscal 2007 the Company granted a source code license in the eB product suite, as it existed in March 2007, to Aveva Solutions Limited and could face competition from the offering by that company or one of its sublicensees of products with substantially the same functionality as the eB product suite. On October 2, 2006, the Company entered into a $2 million licensing contract with an engineering IT solutions and services company, Aveva Solutions Limited (“AVEVA”), by which the Company granted to AVEVA a non-exclusive perpetual license to use and sublicense (subject to certain restrictions described below) the technology underlying the Company’s eB product suite, including the source code of the eB product suite. However, prior to March 31, 2008, AVEVA may not (1) sublicense the source code of the eB product suite or any derivative of it (except to third party contractors under limited circumstances) or (2) sublicense the eB product suite or any derivative of it when such technology is not included with other products (except to existing customers of AVEVA’s parent company, Aveva Group plc, and certain of its affiliates). Nevertheless, subject to the foregoing restrictions, AVEVA or a party to whom AVEVA grants a sublicense could offer products using the Company’s source code and providing substantially the same functionality as the eB product suite, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. The source code license, however, was based on the state of the eB product in March 2007 and since that time the Company has developed new features and functions into the product for which AVEVA has no technology rights. Conversion of the Company’s preferred stock would result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. In a private placement completed in March 2006, the Company issued, in addition to certain warrants, shares of new Series I Convertible Preferred Stock, which upon conversion into common stock would result in substantial dilution to common shareholders. The number of shares of the Company’s common stock into which the shares of Series I Preferred Stock may be converted varies based on a volume-weighted measure of the market price of the common stock. The range is from 11,666,667 common shares, if the market price measure were to be at least $0.25 at the time of all conversions, up to 33,793,104 common shares, if the market price measure were to be no greater than $0.08 at the time of all conversions. On September 30, 2003, the Company issued 5,291 shares of Series F Preferred Stock with a stated value of $1,000 per share in consideration of the cancellation of $5,291,000 of certain debt. The Series F Preferred Stock is convertible into the Company’s common stock at a stated conversion price of $0.45 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution provisions. As a result of these anti-dilution provisions and the issuance of the Series I Convertible Preferred Stock, the conversion price has been adjusted to $0.39 per share. Upon conversion of the Series F Preferred Stock at the $0.39 per share conversion price, 13,566,667 shares of the Company’s common stock is issuable based on the stated value of the Series F Preferred Stock. In addition, upon such conversion, shares of the Company’s common stock are issuable based on any unpaid accrued dividends and interest thereon related to the Series F Preferred Stock as of such date. As of the date of payment to ERP2 of the dividend declared by the Company on January 14, 2008, there will be no such unpaid accrued dividends and interest. Conversion of the Series F Preferred Stock may occur at the option of the holder until September 30, 2008. On that date, any outstanding Series F Preferred Stock not previously converted will be converted automatically. Conversion of the Series F Preferred Stock will result in substantial dilution to common shareholders. Future sales of common stock by the Company’s shareholders, including investors in future offerings and ERP2 Holdings, LLC, could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. ERP2 Holdings, LLC (“ERP2”), as of January 15, 2008 (i) holds 48,388,207 shares of the Company’s common stock on a fully diluted basis and (ii) is entitled to payment of a dividend in the amount of 20,827,268 additional shares of common stock, in satisfaction of the entire amount of accrued and unpaid dividends (together with interest) on the shares of the Company’s Series F Convertible Preferred Stock held by ERP2. In addition, as detailed below, ERP2 is anticipated to become entitled to receive warrants with a per share exercise price of $0.08 for the purchase of the number of shares of common stock equal to the greater of (A) 26,735,508 shares of common stock and (B) 20% of the fully diluted outstanding common stock as of the date of issuance of such warrants. If ERP2, from time to time in the future, sells the shares of common stock that it holds or may acquire, the Company’s stock price may be adversely affected. In connection with the Series I Convertible Preferred Stock private placement completed in March 2006, the Company filed a registration statement for the common stock of the Company issuable upon conversion of such preferred stock. The registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 10, 2006. Any sales of these shares of common stock or shares of the Company’s common stock issued in any future offering could cause a decline in the price of the Company’s stock. 10 The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and warrants that are anticipated to be issued to ERP2 Holding, LLC, would result in dilution of the Company’s stock. As of January 15, 2008, the Company had outstanding stock options to purchase approximately 5,755,250 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase approximately 19,877,823 shares of common stock including a warrant to purchase 17,175,971 shares of common stock at a per share exercise price of $0.08 issued to ERP2 Holdings, LLC ("ERP2"). If such options and warrants are exercised for all or a substantial number of the shares of common stock issuable thereunder, shareholders could suffer significant dilution. The Company is party to a term sheet with ERP2, which provides, among other things, for the extension to the Company by ERP2 of a $1,500,000 loan in two tranches: (a) $300,000 upon delivery of definitive transaction documents pursuant to the term sheet and (b) $1,200,000 upon completion of all actions required to be completed by the Company in order to effectuate a 1000-to-1 reverse split of the Company’s common stock and the deregistration of common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The term sheet provides that, upon disbursement of such $1,200,000 tranche, the Company will issue to ERP2 warrants with a per share exercise price of $0.08 for the purchase of the number of shares of common stock equal to the greater of (i) 26,735,508 shares of common stock and (ii) 20% of the fully diluted outstanding common stock as of the date of such issuance. In the event such warrants are issued and subsequently exercised for all or a substantial number of the shares of common stock issuable thereunder, shareholders could suffer significant dilution. The issuance of shares of common stock to ERP2 Holdings, LLC in payment of the dividend that has been declared on the Series F Convertible Preferred Stock will result in dilution of the Company’s stock. On January 14, 2008, the Company declared a dividend payable to ERP2 Holdings, LLC (“ERP2”) in the amount of 20,827,268 shares of common stock, in satisfaction of the entire amount of accrued and unpaid dividends (together with interest) on the shares of the Company’s Series F Convertible Preferred Stock held by ERP2. Such dividend was issued in satisfaction of a condition to the execution by ERP2 of a term sheet for a financing transaction that the Company and ERP2 entered into on January 14, 2008. The Company’s operating results are difficult to predict and fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and year to year, which may increase the difficulty of financial planning and forecasting and may result in declines in the Company’s stock price. The Company’s future operating results may vary from the Company’s past operating results, are difficult to predict and may vary from year to year due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: · the potential delay in recognizing revenue from license transactions due to revenue recognition rules which the Company must follow; · the tendency to realize a substantial amount of revenue in the last weeks, or even days, of each quarter due to the tendency of some of the Company’s customers to wait until quarter or year end in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms; · customer decisions to delay implementation of the Company’s products; · the size and complexity of the Company’s license transactions; · any seasonality of technology purchases; · demand for the Company’s products, which can fluctuate significantly; · the timing of new product introductions and product enhancements by both the Company and its competitors; · changes in the Company’s pricing policy; · the publication of opinions concerning us, the Company’s products or technology by industry analysts; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and · domestic and international economic and political conditions. One or more of these factors may cause the Company’s operating expenses to be disproportionately high or the Company’s gross revenues to be disproportionately low during any given period, which could cause the Company’s net revenue and operating results to fluctuate significantly. The Company’s operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. You should not rely on the Company’s annual operating results to predict its future results because of the significant fluctuations to which the Company’s results are subject. As a result of these and other factors, operating results for any fiscal year are subject to significant variation, and the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful in terms of their relation to future performance. You should not rely upon these comparisons as indications of future performance. It is likely that the Company’s future quarterly and annual operating results from time to time will not meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause a drop in the price of its common stock. The Company’s market is subject to rapid technological change and if the Company fails to continually enhance its products and services in a timely manner, its revenue and business would be harmed. The Company must continue to enhance and improve the performance, functionality and reliability of its products and services in a timely manner. The software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and services introductions embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render the Company’s products and services obsolete. The Company has experienced product development delays in the past, and may experience delays in the future. The Company’s failure to continually enhance its products and services in a timely manner would adversely impact its business and prospects. In the past, the Company has also discovered that some of its customers desire additional performance and functionality not currently offered by its products. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to internally develop and license leading technologies to enhance its existing products and services, to develop new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its customers, and to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The Company’s product development efforts with respect to its eB product suite are expected to continue to require substantial investments by the Company, and the Company may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. If the Company is unable to adapt its products and services to changing market conditions, customer requirements or emerging industry standards, it may not be able to maintain or increase its revenue and expand its business. The Company’s lack of product diversification means that any decline in price or demand for its products and services would seriously harm its business. The eB product suite and related services have accounted for substantially all of the Company’s revenue and this situation is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a decline in the price of, or demand for, the eB product suite or related services, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would seriously harm the Company’s business. 11 Significant unauthorized use of the Company’s products would result in material loss of potential revenues and the Company’s pursuit of protection for its intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs to it. The Company’s software is licensed to customers under license agreements containing provisions prohibiting the unauthorized use, copying and transfer of the licensed program. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products is difficult and, while the Company is unable to determine the extent to which piracy of its software products exists, any significant piracy of its products could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect the Company’s proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and the Company’s means of protecting its proprietary rights may not be adequate. The Company relies on third party software products incorporated in its products. Any loss of use to such third party software could result in delays in the Company’s product shipments. The Company relies on certain software that it licenses from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in the Company’s products to perform key functions. There can be no assurances that the developers of such software will remain in business, that they will continue to support their products, that their products will otherwise continue to be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or that their products are free from bugs or defects. The loss of or inability to maintain any of these software licenses could result in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. If third parties claim that the Company infringes on their patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights, it may result in costly litigation or require the Company to make royalty payments. The Company is not aware that any of its software products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim infringement by the Company with respect to its current or future products. The Company expects that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, consume significant management time or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may face product liability claims from its customers. The Company’s license agreements with its customers usually contain provisions designed to limit its exposure to potential product liability claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in the Company’s license agreements may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. A successful product liability claim brought against the Company could result in payment by the Company of substantial damages, which would harm its business, operating results and financial condition and cause the price of its common stock to fall. If the Company loses key personnel, or is unable to attract and retain additional key personnel, the Company may not be able to successfully grow and manage its business. The Company believes that its future success will depend upon its ability to attract and retain its key technical and management personnel. These employees are not subject to employment contracts. The Company may not be successful in retaining its key employees in the future or in attracting and assimilating replacement or additional key personnel. Any failure in retaining and attracting management personnel may impair its ability to rapidly grow and manage its business. The Company faces intense competition from several competitors and may be unable to compete successfully. The market for the Company’s products is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. The Company currently encounters competition from a number of public and private companies, including Electronic Document Management System/Enterprise Content Management vendors such as EMC (Documentum product), IBM (FileNet products) , OpenText, and Sword; Enterprise Asset Management vendors such as Indus, Computer Aided Design Vendors (CAD) / Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) vendor such as PTC, Siemens (UGS product), Matrix, Autotrol and Intergraph. Many of these direct competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company. The Company also expects that direct competition will increase as a result of recent consolidation in the software industry. The Company also faces indirect competition from systems integrators and VARs. The Company relies on a number of systems consulting and systems integration firms for implementation and other customer support services, as well as for recommendation of its products to potential purchasers. Although the Company seeks to maintain close relationships with these service providers, many of these third parties have similar, and often more established, relationships with the Company’s principal competitors. If the Company were unable to develop and retain effective, long-term relationships with these third parties, the Company’s competitive position would be materially and adversely affected. Further, these third parties may market software products in competition with the Company in the future and may otherwise reduce or discontinue their relationship with, or support of, the Company and its products. In addition, database vendors, such as Oracle, IBM and Microsoft are potential competitors in the future if they acquire competitive technology or otherwise expand their current product offerings. Like the Company’s current competitors, these companies have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than the Company. Several of these companies, including Oracle, Microsoft, IBM and others, have well-established relationships with the Company’s current and potential customers and strategic partners, as well as extensive resources and knowledge of the enterprise software industry that may enable them to offer a single-vendor solution more easily than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than the Company can. If the Company cannot respond to its competitors adequately and in a timely manner, then it may be required to reduce prices for its products and could suffer reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm its business, prospects, financial condition and operating results, causing the price of its common stock to decline. In addition, the Company’s past financial losses and customer uncertainty regarding the Company’s financial condition are likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to sell its products in the future against competitors. The Company’s common stock is deemed to be “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares due to suitability requirements. The Company’s common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Consequently, broker/dealers dealing in the Company’s common stock are subject to certain requirements. Such requirements may reduce the potential market for the Company’s common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in the Company’s common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause the Company’s stock price to decline. Penny stock is stock: · With a price of less than $5.00 per share; · That is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; · Whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ listed stock must still have a price of not less than $5.00 per share); or 12 · In issuers with net tangible assets less than or equal to $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stock. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. The Company’s common stock trades sporadically; the market price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. The Company’s common stock currently trades sporadically on the OTC Bulletin Board. The market for the Company’s common stock may continue to be an inactive market, and the market price of the Company’s common stock may experience significant volatility. The Company’s quarterly results, failure to meet analysts’ expectations, announcements by the Company or its competitors regarding acquisitions or dispositions, loss of existing customers, new industry standards or technology, changes in general conditions in the economy, and general market conditions could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology companies. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. The Company is subject to significant foreign currency fluctuations which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. Changes in foreign currency rates, the condition of local economies, and the general volatility of software markets may result in a higher or lower proportion of foreign revenues in the future. Although the Company’s operating and pricing strategies take into account changes in exchange rates over time, future fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 