Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Structure Our general partner and its control person could exercise their influence over us to your detriment. Mr. Icahn, through affiliates, currently owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, and approximately 86.5% of our outstanding preferred units and approximately 91.2% of our depositary units and, as a result, has the ability to influence many aspects of our operations and affairs. Icahn Enterprises GP also is the general partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. In addition, if Mr. Icahn were to sell, or otherwise transfer, some or all of his interests in us to an unrelated party or group, a change of control could be deemed to have occurred under the terms of the indentures governing our notes which would require us to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes. We have engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions with our affiliates. We have invested and may in the future invest in entities in which Mr. Icahn also invests. We also have purchased and may in the future purchase entities or investments from him or his affiliates. Although Icahn Enterprises GP has never received fees in connection with our investments, our partnership agreement allows for the payment of these fees. Mr. Icahn may pursue other business opportunities in industries in which we compete and there is no requirement that any additional business opportunities be presented to us. We continuously identify, evaluate and engage in discussions concerning potential investments and acquisitions, including potential investments in and acquisitions of affiliates of Mr. Icahn. There cannot be any assurance that any potential transactions that we consider will be completed. The market for our securities may be volatile. The market for our equity securities may be subject to disruptions that could cause substantial volatility in their prices. Any such disruptions may adversely affect the value of your securities. Future cash distributions to our unitholders, if any, can be affected by numerous factors. While we made cash distributions with respect to the first quarter of fiscal 2007 in the amount of $0.10 per depositary unit, and the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 in the amount of $0.15 per depositary unit,the payment of future distributions will be determined by the board of directors of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, quarterly, based on a review of a number of factors, including those described below and other factors that it deems relevant at the time that declaration of a distribution is considered. On February 29, 2008, the board of directors of Icahn Enterprises GP approved an increase in the quarterly cash distribution from $0.15 to $0.25 per unit on its depositary units payable in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The distribution is payable on April 1, 2008 to depositary unitholders of record at the close of business on March 18, 2008. Our ability to pay distributions will depend on numerous factors, including the availability of adequate cash flow from operations; the proceeds, if any, from divestitures; our capital requirements and other obligations; restrictions contained in our financing arrangements; and our issuances of additional equity and debt securities. The availability of cash flow in the future depends as well upon events and circumstances outside our control, including prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and similar factors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions or as to the timing of any distribution. If distributions are made, there can be no assurance that holders of depositary units may not be required to recognize taxable income in excess of cash distributions made in respect of the period in which a distribution is made. Holders of our depositary units have limited voting rights, rights to participate in our management and control of us. Our general partner manages and operates Icahn Enterprises. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of our outstanding depositary units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS our business. Holders of depositary units have no right to elect the general partner on an annual or other continuing basis, and our general partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the outstanding depositary units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt securities. As a result, holders of depositary units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities. Holders of depositary units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets. We conduct our businesses through Icahn Enterprises Holdings in several states. Maintenance of limited liability will require compliance with legal requirements of those states. We are the sole limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have not clearly been established in several states. If it were determined that Icahn Enterprises Holdings has been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute or the possession or exercise of the right by the partnership, as limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings, to remove its general partner, to approve certain amendments to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement or to take other action pursuant to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement, constituted “control” of Icahn Enterprises Holdings’ business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, Icahn Enterprises and/or unitholders, under certain circumstances, might be held personally liable for Icahn Enterprises Holdings’ obligations to the same extent as our general partner. Further, under the laws of certain states, Icahn Enterprises might be liable for the amount of distributions made to Icahn Enterprises by Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Holders of our depositary units may also have to repay Icahn Enterprises amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to holders of common units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Additionally, under Delaware law an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations, if any, of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him or her at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. To service our indebtedness and pay distributions with respect to our depositary units, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay distributions with respect to our depositary units and to fund operations depends on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our current businesses and businesses that we acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Based on our current level of indebtedness which includes all of our unsecured senior notes and related interest payments due thereon, mortgage payable and credit facilities, approximately $437 million of indebtedness will come due in the three-year period ending December 31, 2010. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are a holding company and depend on the businesses of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations. We are a holding company. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency obligations, marketable equity and debt securities and other short-term investments, our assets consist primarily of 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS investments in our subsidiaries. Moreover, if we make significant investments in operating businesses, it is likely that we will reduce the liquid assets at Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings in order to fund those investments and the ongoing operations of our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make distributions with respect to depositary units and preferred units likely will depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. The operating results of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us and distributions and intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to us may be restricted by applicable law or covenants contained in debt agreements and other agreements to which these subsidiaries may be subject or enter into in the future. The terms of any borrowings of our subsidiaries or other entities in which we own equity may restrict dividends, distributions or loans to us. For example, we have credit facilities for WPI, our majority owned subsidiary, and our real estate development properties that also restrict dividends, distributions and other transactions with us. To the degree any distributions and transfers are impaired or prohibited, our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions on our depository units will be limited. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our 8.125% senior notes due 2012, our 7.125% senior notes due 2013 and our variable rate notes due 2013 do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. We and Icahn Enterprises Holdings may incur additional indebtedness if we comply with certain financial tests contained in the indentures that govern these notes. As of December 31, 2007, based upon these tests, we and Icahn Enterprises Holdings could have incurred up to approximately $1.7 billion of additional indebtedness. However, our subsidiaries other than Icahn Enterprises Holdings, are not subject to any of the covenants contained in the indentures with respect to our senior notes, including the covenant restricting debt incurrence. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we, and they, now face could intensify. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under any of our debt instruments, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. We may be subject to the pension liabilities of our affiliates. Mr. Icahn, through certain affiliates, currently owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP and approximately 91.2% of our outstanding depositary units and 86.5% of our outstanding preferred units. Applicable pension and tax laws make each member of a “controlled group” of entities, generally defined as entities in which there are at least an 80% common ownership interest, jointly and severally liable for certain pension plan obligations of any member of the controlled group. These pension obligations include ongoing contributions to fund the plan, as well as liability for any unfunded liabilities that may exist at the time the plan is terminated. In addition, the failure to pay these pension obligations when due may result in the creation of liens in favor of the pension plan or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, against the assets of each member of the controlled group. As a result of the more than 80% ownership interest in us by Mr. Icahn’s affiliates, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the pension liabilities of all entities in which Mr. Icahn has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 80%. One such entity, ACF Industries LLC, is the sponsor of several pension plans which, 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS as of December 31, 2007, were not underfunded on an ongoing actuarial basis but would be underfunded by approximately $93.3 million if those plans were terminated, as most recently reported by the plans’ actuaries. These liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in promised benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. As members of the controlled group, we would be liable for any failure of ACF to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of the ACF pension plans. In addition, other entities now or in the future within the controlled group that includes us may have pension plan obligations that are, or may become, underfunded and we would be liable for any failure of such entities to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of such plans. The current underfunded status of the ACF pension plans requires ACF to notify the PBGC of certain “reportable events,” such as if we cease to be a member of the ACF controlled group, or if we make certain extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions. The obligation to report could cause us to seek to delay or reconsider the occurrence of such reportable events. Starfire Holding Corporation, or Starfire, which is 100% owned by Mr. Icahn, has undertaken to indemnify us and our subsidiaries from losses resulting from any imposition of certain pension funding or termination liabilities that may be imposed on us and our subsidiaries or our assets as a result of being a member of the Icahn controlled group. The Starfire indemnity (which does not extend to pension liabilities of our subsidiaries that would be imposed on us as a result of our interest in these subsidiaries and not as a result of Mr. Icahn and his affiliates more than 80% ownership interest in us) provides, among other things, that so long as such contingent liabilities exist and could be imposed on us, Starfire will not make any distributions to its stockholders that would reduce its net worth to below $250.0 million. Nonetheless, Starfire may not be able to fund its indemnification obligations to us. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company. Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in companies in which we own less than a 50% interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. In order not to become an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions with an eye toward the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, such as our potential loss of control of WPI, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. See Part II, Item 8, Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies,” and Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. We may become taxable as a corporation. We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income and deductions to our partners. However, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership for past years as well as future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of highly technical and 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income, which includes interest, dividends, oil and gas revenues, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. We believe that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to structure our business in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income this year and in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such structuring will be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of more than 10% of non-qualifying income. If less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, we may be subject to corporate tax on our net income, at a Federal rate of up to 35% plus possible state taxes. Further, if less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income for past years, we may be subject to corporate level tax plus interest and possibly penalties. In addition, if we register under the Investment Company Act, it is likely that we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The cost of paying federal and possibly state income tax, either for past years or going forward, could be a significant liability and would reduce our funds available to make distributions to holders of units, and to make interest and principal payments on our debt securities. To meet the qualifying income test we may structure transactions in a manner which is less advantageous than if this were not a consideration, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions. Legislation has been introduced into Congress which, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. These proposals include legislation which would tax publicly traded partnerships engaged in the investment management business, such as us, as corporations. Other proposals would treat the income from carried interests, when recognized for tax purposes, as ordinary income and as not qualifying as investment income for purposes of the 90% investment income test that publicly traded partnerships must meet to be classified as partnerships. It is unclear whether such legislation will be enacted. Moreover, it is unclear what specific provisions may be enacted, including what the effective date will be, and accordingly what any such legislation’s impact will be on us. It is possible that if such legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation. Holders of depositary units may be required to pay tax on their share of our income even if they did not receive cash distributions from us. Because we are treated as a partnership for income tax purposes, holders of units are generally required to pay federal income tax, and, in some cases, state or local income tax, on the portion of our taxable income allocated to them, whether or not such income is distributed. Accordingly, it is possible that holders of depositary units may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income, or even equal to their tax liability on the portion of our income allocated to them. If we discover significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or at any recently acquired entity, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the market price of our depositary units or our ability to remain listed on the NYSE. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As of December 31, 2007, we completed remediation of previously reported significant deficiencies in internal controls, as defined under interim standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB; in two instances at Icahn Enterprises and one at a subsidiary. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention of those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting. To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our or our consolidated subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which could affect our ability to remain listed on the NYSE. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our depositary units or the rating of our debt. Since we are a limited partnership, you may not be able to pursue legal claims against us in U.S. federal courts. We are a limited partnership organized under the laws of the state of Delaware. Under the federal rules of civil procedure, you may not be able to sue us in federal court on claims other than those based solely on federal law, because of lack of complete diversity. Case law applying diversity jurisdiction deems us to have the citizenship of each of our limited partners. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, it may not be possible for you to attempt to sue us in a federal court because we have citizenship in all 50 U.S. states and operations in many states. Accordingly, you will be limited to bringing any claims in state court. Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest. Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by Mr. Icahn and his affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved. Risks Relating to Our Business General In addition to the following risk factors specific to each of our businesses, all of our businesses are subject to the effects of the following: • the continued threat of terrorism; • economic downturn; • loss of any of our or our subsidiaries key personnel; • the unavailability, as needed, of additional financing; and • the unavailability of insurance at acceptable rates. Investment Management Operations The historical financial information for our investment management operations is not necessarily indicative of the future performance of our investment management operations. The financial results of our investment management operations are primarily driven by AUM and the performance of the Private Funds. The historical consolidated financial information contained elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our investment management operations is not indicative of the future financial results of our investment management operations. In particular, with respect to the historical returns of our investment management operations: • in the past few years, the rates of returns of certain of the Private Funds have benefited from favorable market conditions and profitable investment opportunities that may not repeat themselves; • the rates of return reflect the historical cost configuration of our investment management operations, which may change in the future due to factors beyond our control, including changes in laws; and • future returns may be affected by the risks described elsewhere in this report, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular fund invests. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Poor performance of the Private Funds could cause a decline in our investment management operations revenue, may reduce or eliminate our incentive allocations for one or more periods, and may adversely affect AUM for the Private Funds. Our revenue from our investment management operations is derived principally from three sources: (1) special profits interest allocations; (2) incentive allocations earned based upon the Private Funds’ performance; and (3) gains or losses in our investments in the Private Funds. In the event that one or more of the Private Funds were to perform poorly, our investment management operations revenue could decline and we may not receive special profits interest allocations or incentive allocations. Moreover, in the event that the performance of one or more Private Funds is negative, our investment management operations revenue could decline and we may not receive any incentive allocation. Furthermore, if a Private Fund has net losses (from net realized and unrealized losses), such losses will be carried forward and incentive allocations will not be earned until such losses are recovered. Moreover, we could experience losses on our investments of our own principal as a result of any such poor performance of the Private Funds. Poor performance could make it more difficult for the Private Funds to raise new capital. Poor performance may cause existing investors in the Private Funds to redeem their investments in the Private Funds. Investors and potential investors in the Private Funds continually assess the Private Funds’ performance. The ability of the Private Funds to raise capital, and the avoidance of excessive redemption levels, will depend on the Private Funds’ continued performance at a level that is satisfactory to investors and potential investors in the Private Funds. Successful execution of the Private Funds’ activist investment activities involves many risks, certain of which are outside of our control. The success of the Private Funds' investment strategy may require, among other things: (i) that the Investment Management Entities properly identify companies whose securities prices can be improved through corporate and/or strategic action; (ii) that the Private Funds acquire sufficient securities of such companies at a sufficiently attractive price; (iii) that the Private Funds avoid triggering anti-takeover and regulatory obstacles while aggregating their positions; (iv) that management of portfolio companies and other security holders respond positively to our proposals; and (v) that the market price of portfolio companies' securities increases in response to any actions taken by the portfolio companies. We cannot assure you that any of the foregoing will succeed. Our investment management operations are materially affected by conditions in the global markets and economic conditions throughout the world. The global market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors beyond the control of the Investment Management Entities, including rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. In the event of a market downturn, the Private Funds could be affected in different ways. Furthermore, while difficult market conditions may increase opportunities to make certain distressed asset investments, such conditions may also increase the risk of default with respect to investments held by the Private Funds that have significant debt investments. The Private Funds may fail to realize any profits from their investment activities for a considerable period of time and we may lose some or all of the principal amount we invest in the Private Funds. This risk may be magnified due to concentration of investments and investments in undervalued securities. Our investment management operations revenue depends on the investments made by the Private Funds. Certain investment positions in which each Private Fund may have an interest may be illiquid. The Private Funds may own restricted or non-publicly traded securities and securities traded on foreign exchanges. These investments could prevent a Private Fund from liquidating unfavorable positions promptly and subject the Private Fund to substantial losses. At any given time, a Private Funds’ assets may become highly concentrated within a particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or financial or economic market. In that event, the Private Fund’s investment portfolio will be more susceptible to fluctuations in value resulting from adverse economic conditions affecting the performance of that particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or economic market than a less concentrated portfolio would be. As a result, the Private Funds’ investment portfolio could become concentrated and its aggregate return may be volatile and may be affected substantially by the performance of only one or a few holdings. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Private Funds seek to invest in securities that are undervalued. The identification of investment opportunities in undervalued securities is a difficult task, and there are no assurances that such opportunities will be successfully recognized or acquired. While investments in undervalued securities offer the opportunity for above-average capital appreciation, these investments involve a high degree of financial risk and can result in substantial losses. Returns generated from the Private Funds’ investments may not adequately compensate for the business and financial risks assumed. From time to time, each Private Fund may invest in bonds or other fixed income securities, such as commercial paper and higher yielding (and, therefore, higher risk) debt securities. It is likely that a major economic recession could disrupt severely the market for such securities and may have an adverse impact on the value of such securities. In addition, it is likely that any such economic downturn could adversely affect the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and pay interest thereon and increase the incidence of default for such securities. For reasons not necessarily attributable to any of the risks set forth in this Form 10-K (for example, supply/demand imbalances or other market forces), the prices of the securities in which the Private Funds invest may decline substantially. In particular, purchasing assets at what may appear to be undervalued levels is no guarantee that these assets will not be trading at even more undervalued levels at a time of valuation or at the time of sale. The use of leverage in investments by the Private Funds poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of significant loss in the value of the investments in the Private Funds. Each Private Fund may leverage its capital if its general partner believes that the use of leverage may enable the Private Fund to achieve a higher rate of return. Accordingly, a Private Fund may pledge its securities in order to borrow additional funds for investment purposes. Each Private Fund may also leverage its investment return with options, short sales, swaps, forwards and other derivative instruments. The amount of borrowings that each Private Fund may have outstanding at any time may be substantial in relation to its capital. While leverage may present opportunities for increasing a Private Fund’s total return, leverage may increase losses as well. Accordingly, any event that adversely affects the value of an investment by a Private Fund would be magnified to the extent such fund is leveraged. The cumulative effect of the use of leverage by each Private Fund in a market that moves adversely to the Private Fund’s investments could result in a substantial loss to the Private Fund that would be greater than if the Private Fund was not leveraged. In general, the use of short-term margin borrowings results in certain additional risks to the Private Funds. For example, should the securities pledged to brokers to secure any Private Fund’s margin accounts decline in value, the Private Fund could be subject to a “margin call,” pursuant to which it must either deposit additional funds or securities with the broker, or suffer mandatory liquidation of the pledged securities to compensate for the decline in value. In the event of a sudden drop in the value of any of the Private Fund’s assets, the Private Fund might not be able to liquidate assets quickly enough to satisfy its margin requirements. Any of the Private Funds may enter into repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. When a Private Fund enters into a repurchase agreement, it “sells” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, to a broker-dealer or financial institution, and agrees to repurchase such securities for the price paid by the broker-dealer or financial institution, plus interest at a negotiated rate. In a reverse repurchase transaction, the Private Fund “buys” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, from a broker-dealer or financial institution, subject to the obligation of the broker-dealer or financial institution to repurchase such securities at the price paid by the Private Fund, plus interest at a negotiated rate. The use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements by any of the Private Funds involves certain risks. For example, if the seller of securities to a Private Fund under a reverse repurchase agreement defaults on its obligation to repurchase the underlying securities, as a result of its bankruptcy or otherwise, the Private Fund will seek to dispose of such securities, which action could involve costs or delays. If the seller becomes insolvent and subject to liquidation or reorganization under applicable bankruptcy or other laws, the Private Fund’s ability to dispose of the underlying securities may be restricted. Finally, if a seller defaults on its obligation to repurchase securities under a reverse repurchase agreement, the Private 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fund may suffer a loss to the extent it is forced to liquidate its position in the market, and proceeds from the sale of the underlying securities are less than the repurchase price agreed to by the defaulting seller. The financing used by each Private Fund to leverage its portfolio will be extended by securities brokers and dealers in the marketplace in which the Private Fund invests. While the Private Fund will attempt to negotiate the terms of these financing arrangements with such brokers and dealers, its ability to do so will be limited. The Private Fund is therefore subject to changes in the value that the broker-dealer ascribes to a given security or position, the amount of margin required to support such security or position, the borrowing rate to finance such security or position and/or such broker-dealer’s willingness to continue to provide any such credit to the Private Fund. Because each Private Fund currently has no alternative credit facility which could be used to finance its portfolio in the absence of financing from broker-dealers, it could be forced to liquidate its portfolio on short notice to meet its financing obligations. The forced liquidation of all or a portion of the Private Fund’s portfolios at distressed prices could result in significant losses to the Private Fund. The possibility of increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our investment management operations. Changes in tax law could adversely affect us. As a result of highly publicized financial scandals, investors have exhibited concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and the regulatory environment in which our investment management business operates is subject to further regulation in addition to the rules already promulgated. In particular, in recent years, there has been ongoing debate by U.S. and foreign governments regarding new rules and regulations for investment funds. Our investment management operations may be adversely affected by the enactment of new or revised regulations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of rules and regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. For example, the SEC may require all hedge fund managers to register under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940. Such changes could place limitations on the type of investor that can invest in the Private Funds. Further, such changes may limit the scope of investment activities that may be undertaken by the Private Funds’ managers. Any such changes could increase the cost of our investment management operations doing business and/or materially adversely impact our profitability. In addition, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Private Funds could be substantial and adverse. In addition, changes in tax law could adversely affect us. Legislation has been introduced in Congress which, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. Proposals include legislation which would tax publicly traded partnerships engaged in the investment management business, such as us, as corporations. Other proposals would treat the income from carried interests, when recognized for tax purposes, as ordinary income and as not qualifying as investment income for purposes of the 90% investment income test that publicly traded partnerships must meet to be classified as partnerships. It is unclear whether such legislation will be enacted. Moreover, it is unclear what specific provisions may be enacted, including what the effective date will be, and accordingly what any such legislation’s impact will be on us. It is possible that if such legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation. The investment management business is intensely competitive. The investment management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality and experience of investment professionals and business reputation. The Private Funds compete for fund investors, investment opportunities and talent with an increasing number of hedge funds, private equity funds, specialized funds, traditional asset managers, commercial banks and other financial institutions. Several of our competitors have raised or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital and many of them have investment objectives similar to the Private Funds, which may create additional competition for 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS investment opportunities for the Private Funds and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit. Our competitors may benefit from a lower cost of capital or have higher risk tolerance or different risk assessments, which may allow them to bid more aggressively than us. The Private Funds may lose investment opportunities in the future if they do not match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Alternatively, the Private Funds may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if they match investment price structures and terms offered by competitors. In addition, changes in the global capital markets could diminish the attractiveness of the Private Funds relative to investments in other investment products. This competitive pressure could materially adversely affect the ability of the Investment Management Entities to make successful investments for the Private Funds and reduce the AUM of the Private Funds. These and other factors could reduce our investment management operations revenue and earnings and materially adversely affect our investment management operations. The failure of Mr. Icahn to participate in the management of the Private Funds could have a material adverse effect on the Private Funds and on us. The success of the Private Funds depends upon the ability of the Investment Management Entities to develop and implement investment strategies that achieve the Private Funds’ investment objectives. Subjective decisions made by employees of the Investment Management Entities may cause the Private Funds to incur losses or to miss profit opportunities on which the Private Funds would otherwise have capitalized. In the event that Mr. Icahn ceases to participate in the management of the Private Funds, the consequences to the Private Funds and our investment in them could be material and adverse and could lead to the premature termination of the Private Funds. In the event that Mr. Icahn dies, or is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform his duties as chief executive officer of the General Partners for 90 consecutive days, or for any reason other than death, illness or injury ceases to perform those duties, the investors in each of the Private Funds will have certain redemption rights. The occurrence of such an event could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and earnings of our investment management business, and the ability of the Private Funds to maintain or grow their AUM. Such redemptions could lead possibly to a liquidation of one or more of the Private Funds and a corresponding elimination of our special profits interest allocations and potential to earn incentive allocations. The loss of Mr. Icahn could, therefore, ultimately result in a loss of substantially all of the earnings of our investment management business. The Private Funds make investments in companies we do not control. Investments by the Private Funds include investments in debt or equity securities of publicly traded companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by a Private Fund through open market trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. These investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which the Investment Management Entities disagree or that the majority of stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve the best interests of the Private Fund. In addition, a Private Fund may make investments in which it shares control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for it to implement its investment approach or exit the investment when it otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of the investments by the Private Funds could decrease and our investment management operations revenues could suffer as a result. The ability to hedge investments successfully is subject to numerous risks. The Private Funds may utilize financial instruments, both for investment purposes and for risk management purposes in order to (i) protect against possible changes in the market value of a Private Fund’s investment portfolios resulting from fluctuations in the securities markets and changes in interest rates; (ii) protect a Private Fund’s unrealized gains in the value of the their investment portfolios; (iii) facilitate the sale of any such investments; (iv) enhance or preserve returns, spreads or gains on any investment in the Private Fund’s portfolio; (v) hedge the interest rate or currency exchange rate on any of the Private Fund's 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS liabilities or assets; (vi) protect against any increase in the price of any securities the Investment Management Entities anticipate purchasing at a later date; or (vii) for any other reason that the Investment Management Entities deem appropriate. The success of any hedging activities will depend, in part, upon the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the portfolio investments being hedged. Since the characteristics of many securities change as markets change or time passes, the success of the our investment management operations’ hedging strategy will also be subject to the ability of the Investment Management Entities to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. While a Private Fund may enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce risk, such transactions may result in a poorer overall performance for the Private Fund than if it had not engaged in such hedging transactions. For a variety of reasons, a Private Fund may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments utilized and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Such an imperfect correlation may prevent the Private Fund from achieving the intended hedge or expose the Private Fund to risk of loss. A Private Fund may determine not to hedge against a particular risk because it does not regard the probability of the risk occurring to be sufficiently high as to justify the cost of the hedge. The Investment Management Entities may not foresee the occurrence of the risk and therefore may not hedge against all risks. We are subject to third-party litigation risks attributable to our investment management operations that could result in significant liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Some of the tactics that the Private Funds may use involve litigation. The Private Funds could be a party to lawsuits that they initiate or that are initiated by a company in which the Private Funds invest, other shareholders, or state and federal governmental bodies. There can be no assurance that litigation, once begun, would be resolved in favor of the Private Funds. In addition, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by a Private Fund’s investors if the Investment Management Entities’ management of the Private Fund is alleged to constitute gross negligence, willful misconduct or dishonesty or breach of contract or organizational documents. Further, the Private Fund may be subject to third-party litigation arising from investors’ dissatisfaction with the performance of the Private Fund or based on claims that it improperly exercised control or influence over portfolio investments. The Private Funds and the Investment Management Entities may also be exposed to the risk of litigation or investigation by investors or regulators relating to transactions which presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed. In such actions, we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may exceed our available insurance coverage). In addition, our rights to indemnification from the applicable Private Funds may be challenged. Certain of the Private Funds are incorporated or formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands laws, particularly with respect to shareholder rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, may differ from the laws of the United States and could change possibly to the detriment of the applicable Private Fund. The Private Funds may invest in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose the Private Funds to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States. Investments in securities of non-U.S. issuers (including non-U.S. governments) and securities denominated or whose prices are quoted in non-U.S. currencies pose, to the extent not successfully hedged, currency exchange risks (including blockage, devaluation and non-exchangeability), as well as a range of other potential risks, which could include expropriation, confiscatory taxation, imposition of withholding or other taxes on dividends, interest, capital gains or other income, political or social instability, illiquidity, price volatility and market manipulation. In addition, less information may be available regarding securities of non-U.S. issuers, and non-U.S. issuers may not be subject to accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and requirements comparable to, or as uniform as, those of U.S. issuers. Transaction costs of investing in non-U.S. securities markets are generally higher than in the United States. There is generally less government supervision and regulation of exchanges, brokers and issuers than there is in the United States. The Private Funds may have greater difficulty taking appropriate legal action in non-U.S. courts. Non-U.S. markets also have 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS different clearance and settlement procedures which in some markets have at times failed to keep pace with the volume of transactions, thereby creating substantial delays and settlement failures that could adversely affect the Private Funds’ performance. Investments in non-U.S. markets may result in imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to such securities. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not materially adversely affect the Private Funds’ investments that are held in certain countries or the returns from these investments. The Private Funds’ investments are subject to numerous additional risks. • Generally, there are few limitations on the execution of the Private Funds’ investment activities, which are subject to the sole discretion of the Investment Management Entities. • A Private Fund may buy or sell (or write) both call options and put options, and when it writes options, it may do so on a covered or an uncovered basis. When the Private Fund sells (or writes) an option, the risk can be substantially greater than when it buys an option. The seller of an uncovered call option bears the risk of an increase in the market price of the underlying security above the exercise price. The risk is theoretically unlimited unless the option is covered. If it is covered, the Private Fund would forego the opportunity for profit on the underlying security should the market price of the security rise above the exercise price. Swaps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the swap counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the swap counterparty, market risk, liquidity risk and operations risk. • The Private Funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to a theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. The Private Funds may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the borrowed securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the Private Funds are otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions. • The Private Funds may effect transactions through over-the-counter or interdealer markets. The participants in such markets are typically not subject to credit evaluation and regulatory oversight as are members of exchange-based markets. This exposes the Private Funds to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the Private Fund to suffer a loss. Such “counterparty risk” is accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where a Private Fund has concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of its counterparties. The Private Funds are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of the Private Funds transactions with one counterparty. • Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by other institutions. This systemic risk may materially adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as prime brokers, clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the Private Funds interact on a daily basis. • The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. The Private Funds’ trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the Private Funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall positions were to need adjustment, the Private Funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the Private Funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the Investment Management Entities and might incur a loss in liquidating their position. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Metals Operations The principal markets served by our scrap metals operations are highly competitive. We may have difficulty competing with companies that have a lower cost structure than ours. Our scrap metals business operates in a highly competitive environment. We primarily provide services to industrial companies. Many other companies offer the same or similar services and compete with our metals business on a number of bases including, but not limited to: (i) price; (ii) quality of service; (iii) proximity to the consumer; (iv) proximity to sources of supply; (v) local or regional presence; (vi) technology; (vii) safety performance; and (viii) financial strength. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do either nationally or in the particular locale in which they operate. Some of these competitors are larger and have more diverse businesses than we do. In addition, we also face increased competition from steel mills that are vertically integrated into the scrap metal business. Some of our foreign competitors may be able to pursue business opportunities without regard for the laws and regulations with which we must comply, such as environmental regulations. These companies may have a lower cost structure, more operating flexibility and consequently they may be able to offer better prices and more services than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. In addition to larger companies, we compete with many smaller competitors operating locally in this highly fragmented market. Some of the companies may have lower operating costs and may be able to compete more effectively on price. Prices of commodities are volatile and markets are competitive. We are exposed to commodity price risk during the period that we have title to products that are held in inventory for processing and/or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions; • labor costs; • competition; • financial condition of our major customers; • access and costs associated with transportation systems; • the availability of imports; • the availability and relative pricing of scrap metal substitutes; and • import duties, ocean freight costs, tariffs and currency exchange rates. In an increasing price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment for processed scrap, we may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw scrap metal we process and sell to our customers. New entrants into our markets could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our scrap metals. Prices in the scrap metal industry are established and adjusted monthly by the major steel producers. The price of ferrous scrap is a significant factor influencing the profitability of the scrap metals industry. Increases in steel imports could adversely affect the demand for scrap metals domestically. Our scrap metals operations may be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the United States, which will have an adverse impact on domestic steel production and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for scrap metals domestically. Additionally, our scrap metals business could be negatively affected by strengthening in the U.S. dollar or increased freight costs which could negatively impact export sales and a stronger U.S. dollar could also attract imports of scrap or scrap substitutes, reducing demand for our scrap metals. A significant increase in the use of scrap metals alternatives by consumers of processed scrap metals could reduce demand for our products. During periods of high demand for scrap metals, tightness can develop in the supply and demand for ferrous scrap. The relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly prime or industrial grades, and its high price 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS during such periods have created opportunities for producers of alternatives to scrap metals, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets and others. Although these alternatives have not been a major factor in the industry to date, we cannot assure you that the use of alternatives to scrap metals may not proliferate in the future if the prices for scrap metals rise, if the supplies of available unprepared ferrous scrap tighten or if costs to import scrap decline precipitously. The profitability of our scrap recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply. As part of our scrap metals operations, we procure scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their scrap collection activities. If a substantial number of scrap suppliers cease selling scrap metals to us, our scrap metals operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a slowdown of industrial production in the United States would reduce the supply of industrial grades of scrap metal to the scrap metals recycling industry, resulting in our metals operations having less scrap to process and market. Our scrap metals operations present significant risk of injury or death. Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors notwithstanding the safety precautions we take. Our scrap metals operations are subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. While we have in place policies to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any death or injury that may occur in the future and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our scrap metals operations. Our scrap metals operations are subject to stringent regulations, particularly under applicable environmental laws. We are subject to comprehensive local, state and federal statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among others: • the acceptance, storage, handling and disposal of solid, hazardous and Toxic Substances Control Act waste; • the discharge of materials into the air; • the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water; • the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; • the restoration of natural resource damages; and • the protection of our employees’ health and safety. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable statutes and regulations governing the protection of human health and the environment, including employee health and safety. We can give you no assurance, however, that we will continue to be in material compliance or avoid material fines, penalties and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future. Such laws and regulations also require manifests to be completed and delivered in connection with any shipment of prescribed materials so that the movement and disposal of such materials can be traced and the persons responsible for any mishandling of such materials identified. Regulatory requirements may also be imposed as conditions of operating permits or licenses both initially and upon renewal or modification. As part of our scrap metals business, we must properly remove, handle, recycle or dispose of waste materials or incur liability. Transportation, transfer, storage and disposal of waste are difficult and accidents may occur. These laws and regulations are stringent and are likely to become more stringent. Existing and new laws and regulations may require our scrap metals operations to modify, supplement, replace or curtail its operating methods or to modify or replace facilities or equipment at costs that may be substantial without any corresponding increase in revenues. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Hazardous substances are present in some of the processing, transfer and storage facilities owned or leased by our scrap metal business and landfill facilities used by our scrap metals business. Remediation may be required at these sites at substantial cost. We cannot assure you that the ultimate cost and expense of corrective action will not substantially exceed any reserves and have a material adverse impact on our scrap metals operations. In addition, governments have from time to time required companies to remediate sites where materials were properly disposed because those governments have instituted higher standards. We are required to obtain, and must comply with, various permits and licenses to conduct our scrap metals operations. Failure to obtain or violations of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in our incurring substantial fines, suspension of our scrap metals operations or closure of a site. Further, our scrap metals operations are conducted primarily outdoors and as such, depending on the nature of the ground cover, involve the risk of releases of wastes and other regulated materials to the soil and, possibly, to groundwater. From time to time, as part of our continuous improvement programs, we incur costs to improve environmental control systems. Our scrap metals operations may be subject to public opposition and adverse publicity that could delay or limit our scrap metals development and expansion. A high level of public concern exists over industrial by-products recovery operations, including the location and operation of transfer, processing, storage and disposal facilities and the collection, processing or handling of industrial by-products and waste materials, particularly hazardous materials. Zoning, permit and licensing applications and proceedings and regulatory enforcement proceedings are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. As a result, from time to time, our scrap metals operations may be subject to citizen opposition and adverse publicity that may have a negative effect on operations and delay or limit the expansion and developing of operating properties, and could have a material adverse effect on our scrap metals operation. We may be unable to obtain adequate environmental insurance. Our scrap metals business is subject to potential liability for personal injuries and property damage caused by releases of hazardous substances and for remediation of risks posed by hazardous substances. Consistent with industry trends, we may be unable to obtain an adequate amount of environmental impairment insurance for our scrap metals business at a reasonable premium to cover liability to third persons for environmental damage. Accordingly, if our scrap metals operations were to incur liability for environmental damage either not provided for under such coverage or in excess of such coverage, our scrap metals operations could be materially or adversely affected. Real Estate Operations Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in unentitled land, undeveloped land and distressed development properties. These properties involve more risk than properties on which development has been completed. Unentitled land may not be approved for development. These investments do not generate any operating revenue, while costs are incurred to obtain government approvals and develop the properties. Construction may not be completed within budget or as scheduled and projected rental levels or sales prices may not be achieved and other unpredictable contingencies beyond our control could occur. We will not be able to recoup any of such costs until such time as these properties, or parcels thereof, are either disposed of or developed into income-producing assets. In addition, we may not be able to recoup our investment in our inventory of unsold residential units and credit market disruptions may negatively impact commercial real estate values. We may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of development and rental real estate. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants released on, under, in or from its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. To 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS the extent any such substances are found in or on any property invested in by us, we could be exposed to liability and be required to incur substantial remediation costs. The presence of such substances or the failure to undertake proper remediation may adversely affect the ability to finance, refinance or dispose of such property. We generally conduct a Phase I environmental site assessment on properties in which we are considering investing. A Phase I environmental site assessment involves record review, visual site assessment and personnel interviews, but does not typically include invasive testing procedures such as air, soil or groundwater sampling or other tests performed as part of a Phase II environmental site assessment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any assessments we conduct will disclose all potential liabilities or that future property uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or activities at nearby properties will not result in the creation of environmental liabilities with respect to a property. Home Fashion Operations Pending legal proceedings may result in our ownership of WPI’s common stock being reduced to less than 50%. A legal action in Delaware challenges the issuance to us of the preferred stock of WPI. Uncertainties arising from these proceedings may adversely affect WPI’s operations and prospects and the value of our investment in it. As of December 31, 2007, we owned approximately 67.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the preferred stock of WPI. As a result of a decision of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York reversing certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Court order pursuant to which we acquired our ownership of a majority of the common stock of WPI, the proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court on remand and the proceedings filed in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware, our percentage of the outstanding shares of common stock of WPI could be reduced to less than 50% and perhaps substantially less and our ownership of the preferred stock of WPI could also be affected. If we were to lose control of WPI, it could adversely affect the business and prospects of WPI and the value of our investment in it. In addition, we consolidated the balance sheet of WPI as of December 31, 2007 and WPI’s results of operations for the period from the date of acquisition (August 8, 2005) through December 31, 2007. If we were to own less than 50% of the outstanding common stock or the challenge to our preferred stock ownership is successful, we would have to evaluate whether we should consolidate WPI and if so our financial statements could be materially different than as presented as of December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and for the periods then ended. We cannot assure you that WPI will be able to operate profitably. WPI operated at a loss during fiscal 2007, and we expect that WPI will continue to operate at a loss during fiscal 2008. We cannot assure you that it will be able to operate profitably in the future. The loss of any of WPI’s large customers could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. During fiscal 2007, WPI’s six largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of its net sales. Other retailers have indicated that they intend to significantly increase their direct sourcing of home fashion products from foreign sources. The loss of any of WPI’s largest accounts, or a material portion of sales to those accounts, would have an adverse effect upon WPI’s business, which could be material. A portion of WPI’s sales are derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. A portion of WPI’s sales is derived from licensed designer brands. The license agreements for WPI’s designer brands generally are for a term of two or three years. Some of the licenses are automatically renewable for additional periods, provided that sales thresholds set forth in the license agreements are met. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s business, which could be material. Under certain circumstances, these licenses can be terminated without WPI’s consent due to circumstances beyond WPI’s control. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS A shortage of the principal raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could force WPI to pay more for those materials and, possibly, cause WPI to increase its prices, which could have an adverse effect on WPI’s operations. Any shortage in the raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could adversely affect its operations. The principal raw materials that WPI uses in the manufacture of its products are cotton of various grades and staple lengths and polyester and nylon in staple and filament form. Since cotton is an agricultural product, its supply and quality are subject to weather patterns, disease and other factors. The price of cotton is also influenced by supply and demand considerations, both domestically and worldwide, and by the cost of polyester. Although WPI has been able to acquire sufficient quantities of cotton for its operations in the past, any shortage in the cotton supply by reason of weather patterns, disease or other factors, or a significant increase in the price of cotton, could adversely affect its operations. The price of man-made fibers, such as polyester and nylon, is influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and costs, petroleum prices, cotton prices and the cost of polymers used in producing these fibers. In particular, the effect of increased energy prices may have a direct impact upon the cost of dye and chemicals, polyester and other synthetic fibers. Any significant prolonged petrochemical shortages could significantly affect the availability of man-made fibers and could cause a substantial increase in demand for cotton. This could result in decreased availability of cotton and possibly increased prices and could adversely affect WPI’s operations. The home fashion industry is highly competitive and WPI’s success depends on its ability to compete effectively in the market. The home fashion industry is highly competitive. WPI’s future success will, to a large extent, depend on its ability to remain a low-cost producer and to remain competitive. WPI competes with both foreign and domestic companies on, among other factors, the basis of price, quality and customer service. In the home fashion market, WPI competes with many companies. WPI’s future success depends on its ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. We cannot assure you of WPI’s ability to compete effectively in any of these areas. Any failure to compete effectively could adversely affect WPI’s sales and, accordingly, its operations. Additionally, the easing of trade restrictions over time has led to growing competition from low priced products imported from Asia and Latin America. The lifting of import quotas in 2005 has accelerated the loss of WPI’s market share. There can be no assurance that the foreign competition will not grow to a level that could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s ability to compete effectively. WPI has increased the percentage of its products that are made outside of the United States and is subject to additional risks relating to doing business overseas. WPI has increased the percentage of its products that are made overseas and faces additional risks associated with these efforts. Adverse factors that WPI may encounter include: • logistical challenges caused by distance; • language and cultural differences; • legal and regulatory restrictions; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements with overseas suppliers; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability; and • potential adverse tax consequences. WPI continues to restructure its operations but these efforts may not be successful. To improve WPI’s competitive position, WPI intends to continue to significantly reduce its cost of goods sold by restructuring its operations in the plants located in the United States, increasing production within its non-U.S. facilities and joint venture operation and sourcing goods from lower-cost overseas facilities. There is no assurance that WPI will be successful in its continuing restructuring efforts, the failure of which could adversely impact WPI’s profitability and ability to compete effectively. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS There has been consolidation of retailers of WPI’s products that may reduce its profitability. Retailers of consumer goods have consolidated and become more powerful over time. As buying power has become more concentrated, pricing pressure on vendors has grown. With the ability to buy imported products directly from foreign sources, retailers’ pricing leverage has increased and also allowed for growth in private label brands that displace and compete with WPI proprietary brands. Retailers’ pricing leverage has resulted in a decline in WPI’s unit pricing and margins and resulted in a shift in product mix to more private label programs. If WPI is unable to diminish the decline in its pricing and margins, it may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. The retail industry in the U.S. is highly competitive and subject to the various economic cycles of consumer demand. WPI is subject to the retailers’ demand for products as manifest by underlying consumer spending. Retailers of consumer goods are dependent upon consumer spending. In turn, consumer spending is broadly a function of the overall economic environment. Given the reported weaknesses, both in the overall economy and of comparable retail store sales, WPI’s financial results are subject to changes in the level of consumer retail spending for home textile products. WPI may incur adverse financial consequences if its retail store customers experience adverse financial results. To the extent that WPI’s retail store company customers are faced with financial difficulties due to weakened consumer demand, depending upon the amount of business that WPI does with any such customer, WPI’s financial results may be adversely affected. This adverse impact could arise out of the potential recoverability of a receivable from a financially impaired retail store customer or from this customer doing less business with WPI or other of its vendors. WPI believes it maintains adequate receivable reserves for specifically known events and an overall general provision for unknown circumstances. However, depending upon the magnitude of any future unknown event, these reserves may or may not be sufficient. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If it does not comply with these regulations, it may incur significant costs in the future to become compliant. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge, storage, handling, usage and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes used in, or resulting from, its operations, including potential remediation obligations under those laws and regulations. WPI’s operations are also governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to employee safety and health which, among other things, establish exposure limitations for cotton dust, formaldehyde, asbestos and noise, and which regulate chemical, physical and ergonomic hazards in the workplace. Consumer product safety laws, regulations and standards at the federal and state level govern the manufacture and sale of products by WPI. Although WPI does not expect that compliance with any of these laws and regulations will adversely affect its operations, we cannot assure you that regulatory requirements will not become more stringent in the future or that WPI will not incur significant costs to comply with those requirements. Holding Company Investments We may not be able to identify suitable investments, and our investments may not result in favorable returns or may result in losses. Our partnership agreement allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities we believe exist outside of our operating businesses. The equity securities in which we may invest may include common stock, preferred stock and securities convertible into common stock, as well as warrants to purchase these securities. The debt securities in which we may invest may include bonds, debentures, notes or non-rated mortgage-related securities, municipal obligations, bank debt and mezzanine loans. Certain of these securities may include lower rated or non-rated securities which may provide the potential for higher yields and therefore may entail higher risk and may include the securities of bankrupt or distressed companies. In addition, we 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS may engage in various investment techniques, including derivatives, options and futures transactions, foreign currency transactions, “short” sales and leveraging for either hedging or other purposes. We may concentrate our activities by owning significant or controlling interest in certain investments. We may not be successful in finding suitable opportunities to invest our cash and our strategy of investing in undervalued assets may expose us to numerous risks. We have entered into a covered affiliate agreement, pursuant to which we (and certain of our subsidiaries) have agreed, in general, to be bound by certain restrictions on our investments in any assets that the General Partners deem suitable for the Private Funds, other than government and agency bonds, cash equivalents and investments in non-public companies. We and our subsidiaries will not be restricted from making investments in the securities of certain companies in which Mr. Icahn or companies he controlled had an interest in as of the date of the initial launch of the Private Funds, and companies in which we had an interest as of the date of the acquisition on August 8, 2007 of our investment management operations. We and our subsidiaries, either alone or acting together with a group, will not be restricted from (i) acquiring all or any portion of the assets of any public company in connection with a negotiated transaction or series of related negotiated transactions or (ii) engaging in a negotiated merger transaction with a public company and, pursuant thereto, conducting and completing a tender offer for securities of the company. Our investments may be subject to significant uncertainties. Our investments may not be successful for many reasons including, but not limited to: • fluctuations of interest rates; • lack of control in minority investments; • worsening of general economic and market conditions; • lack of diversification; • fluctuations of U.S. dollar exchange rates; and • adverse legal and regulatory developments that may affect particular businesses. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 