Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Structure Our general partner and its control person could exercise their influence over us to your detriment. Mr. Icahn, through affiliates, owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, and approximately 92.0% of our outstanding depositary units and approximately 86.5% of our preferred units as of December 31, 2009, and, as a result, has the ability to influence many aspects of our operations and affairs. Icahn Enterprises GP also is the general partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. In addition, if Mr. Icahn were to sell, or otherwise transfer, some or all of his interests in us to an unrelated party or group, a change of control could be deemed to have occurred under the terms of the indentures governing our new notes (as defined below) which would require us to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes. We have engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions with our affiliates. We have invested and may in the future invest in entities in which Mr. Icahn also invests. We also have purchased and may in the future purchase entities or investments from him or his affiliates. Although Icahn Enterprises GP has never received fees in connection with our investments, our partnership agreement allows for the payment of these fees. Mr. Icahn may pursue other business opportunities in industries in which we compete and there is no requirement that any additional business opportunities be presented to us. We continuously identify, evaluate and engage in discussions concerning potential investments and acquisitions, including potential investments in and acquisitions of affiliates of Mr. Icahn. There cannot be any assurance that any potential transactions that we consider will be completed. The market for our securities may be volatile. The market for our equity securities may be subject to disruptions that could cause substantial volatility in their prices. In general, the current global economic crisis has caused substantial market volatility and unrest. Any such disruptions or continuing volatility may adversely affect the value of your securities. Future cash distributions to our unitholders, if any, can be affected by numerous factors. While we made cash distributions in the amount of $0.25 per depositary unit in each of the four quarters of fiscal 2009, the payment of future distributions will be determined by the board of directors of Icahn Enterprises GP, our general partner, quarterly, based on a review of a number of factors, including those described below and other factors that it deems relevant at the time that declaration of a distribution is considered. Our ability to pay distributions will depend on numerous factors, including the availability of adequate cash flow from operations; the proceeds, if any, from divestitures; our capital requirements and other obligations; restrictions contained in our financing arrangements; and our issuances of additional equity and debt securities. The availability of cash flow in the future depends as well upon events and circumstances outside our control, including prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and similar factors. No assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions or as to the timing of any distribution. If distributions are made, there can be no assurance that holders of depositary units may not be required to recognize taxable income in excess of cash distributions made in respect of the period in which a distribution is made. Holders of our depositary units have limited voting rights, rights to participate in our management and control of us. Our general partner manages and operates Icahn Enterprises. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of our outstanding depositary units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Holders of depositary units have no right to elect the general partner on an annual or other 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS continuing basis, and our general partner generally may not be removed except pursuant to the vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the outstanding depositary units. In addition, removal of the general partner may result in a default under our debt securities. As a result, holders of depositary units have limited say in matters affecting our operations and others may find it difficult to attempt to gain control or influence our activities. Holders of depositary units may not have limited liability in certain circumstances and may be liable for the return of distributions that cause our liabilities to exceed our assets. We conduct our businesses through Icahn Enterprises Holdings in several states. Maintenance of limited liability will require compliance with legal requirements of those states. We are the sole limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Limitations on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have not clearly been established in several states. If it were determined that Icahn Enterprises Holdings has been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute or the possession or exercise of the right by the partnership, as limited partner of Icahn Enterprises Holdings, to remove its general partner, to approve certain amendments to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement or to take other action pursuant to the Icahn Enterprises Holdings partnership agreement, constituted “control” of Icahn Enterprises Holdings’ business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, Icahn Enterprises and/or unitholders, under certain circumstances, might be held personally liable for Icahn Enterprises Holdings’ obligations to the same extent as our general partner. Further, under the laws of certain states, Icahn Enterprises might be liable for the amount of distributions made to Icahn Enterprises by Icahn Enterprises Holdings. Holders of our depositary units may also have to repay Icahn Enterprises amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to holders of our depositary units if the distribution causes our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and nonrecourse liabilities are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that a limited partner who receives such a distribution and knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount for three years from the distribution date. Additionally, under Delaware law an assignee who becomes a substituted limited partner of a limited partnership is liable for the obligations, if any, of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, such an assignee is not obligated for liabilities unknown to him or her at the time he or she became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. To service our indebtedness and pay distributions with respect to our depositary units, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to maintain our current cash position or generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to pay distributions with respect to our depositary units and to fund operations depends on existing cash balances and our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our current businesses and businesses that we acquire may not generate sufficient cash to service our debt. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or investments and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. After taking into effect the debt extinguishment on our 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes and the issuance of the New Notes, approximately $600 million of indebtedness will come due in the three-year period ending December 31, 2012, which includes our mortgages payable, credit facilities and related interest payments due thereon. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are a holding company and depend on the businesses of our subsidiaries to satisfy our obligations. We are a holding company. In addition to cash and cash equivalents, U.S. government and agency obligations and other short-term investments, our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Moreover, if we make significant investments in operating businesses, it is likely that we will reduce the liquid assets at Icahn Enterprises and Icahn Enterprises Holdings in order to fund those investments and the ongoing operations of our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our debt service obligations and make distributions with respect to depositary units likely will depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or otherwise. The operating results of our subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to us. In addition, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us and distributions and intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to us may be restricted by applicable law or covenants contained in debt agreements and other agreements to which these subsidiaries may be subject or enter into in the future. The terms of any borrowings of our subsidiaries or other entities in which we own equity may restrict dividends, distributions or loans to us. For example, we have credit facilities for Federal-Mogul and WPI, our majority owned subsidiaries, and our real estate development properties that also restrict dividends, distributions and other transactions with us. To the degree any distributions and transfers are impaired or prohibited, our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions on our depositary units will be limited. We or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. In January 2010, we issued $850,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.750% senior notes due 2016, or the 2016 Notes, and $1,150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8% senior notes due 2018, or the 2018 Notes (and, together with the 2016 Notes, referred to herein as the New Notes) in a private placement not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The New Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of January 15, 2010 by us and Icahn Enterprises Finance Corp., or Icahn Enterprises Finance, as co-issuer. The proceeds from the sale of the New Notes were used in part to repay the existing senior unsecured 7.125% notes due 2013, or the 2013 Notes, and the senior unsecured 8.125% notes due 2012, or the 2012 Notes. The covenants in the indenture governing the New Notes are substantially similar to the covenants in the indenture governing our variable rate notes due 2013 (and the covenants in the indentures that governed the 2013 Notes and the 2012 Notes) and do not prohibit our subsidiaries from incurring additional debt. We and Icahn Enterprises Holdings may incur additional indebtedness if we comply with certain financial tests contained in the indentures that govern these notes. However, our subsidiaries other than Icahn Enterprises Holdings are not subject to any of the covenants contained in the indentures governing or senior notes, including the covenant restricting debt incurrence. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current levels, the related risks that we, and they, now face could intensify. In addition, under the indenture governing our new notes, certain important events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a change of control. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained under any of our debt instruments, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, including our failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which would materially and adversely affect our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. It is possible that, if the defaulted debt is accelerated, our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments and we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be subject to the pension liabilities of our affiliates. Mr. Icahn, through certain affiliates, owns 100% of Icahn Enterprises GP and approximately 92.0% of our outstanding depositary units and approximately 86.5% of our outstanding preferred units as of December 31, 2009. Applicable pension and tax laws make each member of a “controlled group” of entities, generally defined as entities in which there are at least an 80% common ownership interest, jointly and severally liable for certain pension plan obligations of any member of the controlled group. These pension obligations include ongoing contributions to fund the plan, as well as liability for any unfunded liabilities that may exist at the time the plan is terminated. In addition, the failure to pay these pension obligations when due may result in the creation of liens in favor of the pension plan or the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or the PBGC, against the assets of each member of the controlled group. As a result of the more than 80% ownership interest in us by Mr. Icahn’s affiliates, we and our subsidiaries are subject to the pension liabilities of all entities in which Mr. Icahn has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 80%. One such entity, ACF Industries LLC, is the sponsor of several pension plans which, as of December 31, 2009, were not underfunded on an ongoing actuarial basis but would be underfunded by approximately $117 million if those plans were terminated, as most recently reported by the plans’ actuaries. These liabilities could increase or decrease, depending on a number of factors, including future changes in promised benefits, investment returns, and the assumptions used to calculate the liability. As members of the controlled group, we would be liable for any failure of ACF to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of the ACF pension plans. In addition, other entities now or in the future within the controlled group that includes us may have pension plan obligations that are, or may become, underfunded and we would be liable for any failure of such entities to make ongoing pension contributions or to pay the unfunded liabilities upon a termination of such plans. The current underfunded status of the ACF pension plans requires ACF to notify the PBGC of certain “reportable events,” such as if we cease to be a member of the ACF controlled group, or if we make certain extraordinary dividends or stock redemptions. The obligation to report could cause us to seek to delay or reconsider the occurrence of such reportable events. Starfire Holding Corporation, or Starfire, which is 100% owned by Mr. Icahn, has undertaken to indemnify us and our subsidiaries from losses resulting from any imposition of certain pension funding or termination liabilities that may be imposed on us and our subsidiaries or our assets as a result of being a member of the Icahn controlled group. The Starfire indemnity (which does not extend to pension liabilities of our subsidiaries that would be imposed on us as a result of our interest in these subsidiaries and not as a result of Mr. Icahn and his affiliates more than 80% ownership interest in us) provides, among other things, that so long as such contingent liabilities exist and could be imposed on us, Starfire will not make any distributions to its stockholders that would reduce its net worth to below $250 million. Nonetheless, Starfire may not be able to fund its indemnification obligations to us. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company. Because we are a holding company and a significant portion of our assets may, from time to time, consist of investments in companies in which we own less than a 50% interest, we run the risk of inadvertently becoming an investment company that is required to register under the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulations relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Registered investment companies are not permitted to operate their business in the manner in which we operate our business, nor are registered investment companies permitted to have many of the relationships that we have with our affiliated companies. In order not to become an investment company required to register under the Investment Company Act, we monitor the value of our investments and structure transactions with an eye toward the Investment Company Act. As a result, we may structure transactions in a less advantageous manner than if we did not have Investment Company Act concerns, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions due to those concerns. In addition, events beyond our control, including significant appreciation or depreciation in the market value of certain of our publicly traded holdings or adverse developments with respect to our 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS ownership of certain of our subsidiaries, such as our potential loss of control of WPI, one of our majority owned subsidiaries, could result in our inadvertently becoming an investment company. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion. If it were established that we were an investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. We may become taxable as a corporation. We believe that we have been and are properly treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. This allows us to pass through our income and deductions to our partners. However, the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could challenge our partnership status and we could fail to qualify as a partnership for past years as well as future years. Qualification as a partnership involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. For example, a publicly traded partnership is generally taxable as a corporation unless 90% or more of its gross income is “qualifying” income, which includes interest, dividends, oil and gas revenues, real property rents, gains from the sale or other disposition of real property, gain from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of interest or dividends, and certain other items. We believe that in all prior years of our existence at least 90% of our gross income was qualifying income and we intend to structure our business in a manner such that at least 90% of our gross income will constitute qualifying income this year and in the future. However, there can be no assurance that such structuring will be effective in all events to avoid the receipt of more than 10% of non-qualifying income. If less than 90% of our gross income constitutes qualifying income, we may be subject to corporate tax on our net income, at a Federal rate of up to 35% plus possible state taxes. Further, if less than 90% of our gross income constituted qualifying income for past years, we may be subject to corporate level tax plus interest and possibly penalties. In addition, if we register under the Investment Company Act, it is likely that we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The cost of paying federal and possibly state income tax, either for past years or going forward could be a significant liability and would reduce our funds available to make distributions to holders of units, and to make interest and principal payments on our debt securities. To meet the qualifying income test we may structure transactions in a manner which is less advantageous than if this were not a consideration, or we may avoid otherwise economically desirable transactions. Legislation has been introduced into Congress which, if enacted, could have a material and adverse effect on us. These proposals include legislation which would tax publicly traded partnerships engaged in the Investment Management segment, such as us, as corporations. Other proposals, including a proposal in H.R. 4213, the Tax Extenders Act of 2009, or the Extenders Bill, that was recently passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, if eventually enacted and applied to us, would treat the income from carried interests, when recognized for tax purposes, as ordinary income and as not qualifying as investment income for purposes of the 90% investment income test that publicly traded partnerships must meet to be classified as partnerships. Under the Extenders Bill as currently drafted, this treatment would not apply to a partnership that is publicly traded on the date of enactment for any taxable year of the partnership that begins before the date 10 years after the date of enactment. It is unclear whether such legislation will be enacted. Moreover, it is unclear what specific provisions may be enacted, including what the effective date will be, and accordingly what any such legislation’s impact will be on us. It is possible that if such legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Holders of depositary units may be required to pay tax on their share of our income even if they did not receive cash distributions from us. Because we are treated as a partnership for income tax purposes, holders of units are generally required to pay federal income tax, and, in some cases, state or local income tax, on the portion of our taxable income allocated to them, whether or not such income is distributed. Accordingly, it is possible that holders of depositary units may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income, or even equal to their tax liability on the portion of our income allocated to them. If we discover significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting or at any recently acquired entity, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the market price of our depositary units or our ability to remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention of those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting. To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our consolidated subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which could affect our ability to remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our depositary units or the rating of our debt. Since we are a limited partnership, you may not be able to pursue legal claims against us in U.S. federal courts. We are a limited partnership organized under the laws of the state of Delaware. Under the federal rules of civil procedure, you may not be able to sue us in federal court on claims other than those based solely on federal law, because of lack of complete diversity. Case law applying diversity jurisdiction deems us to have the citizenship of each of our limited partners. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, it may not be possible for you to attempt to sue us in a federal court because we have citizenship in all 50 U.S. states and operations in many states. Accordingly, you will be limited to bringing any claims in state court. Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest. Certain individual members of our management team may, from time to time, be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by Mr. Icahn and his affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved. We may not realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions. We may expand our existing businesses if appropriate opportunities are identified, as well as use our established businesses as a platform for additional acquisitions in the same or related areas. Any such acquisition, if consummated, could involve risks not presently faced by us. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Our Business General In addition to the following risk factors specific to each of our businesses, all of our businesses are subject to the effects of the following: • the continued threat of terrorism; • continued or future economic downturn; • loss of any of our or our subsidiaries’ key personnel; • the unavailability, as needed, of additional financing; and • the unavailability of insurance at acceptable rates. Investment Management Our Investment Management segment has been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally. During most of fiscal 2008 and into fiscal 2009, the global securities markets and the economy generally were characterized by extreme volatility and illiquidity and significant overall deterioration. These and other factors had a negative effect on the Private Funds and, therefore, our Investment Management segment. Although the global markets and the economic climate improved in fiscal 2009, there is significant risk that these conditions could again deteriorate and experience volatility and illiquidity and these conditions could continue for a significant period of time. In the event that some or all of these conditions occur, the Private Funds could be materially and adversely affected in many different ways. Furthermore, difficult market conditions may also increase the risk of default with respect to investments held by the Private Funds that have significant debt investments. Many other factors beyond the control of our Investment Management segment may adversely affect the Private Funds, including, without limitation, rising interest rates, inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. The historical financial information for our Investment Management segment is not necessarily indicative of its future performance. The financial results of our Investment Management segment are primarily driven by AUM and the performance of the Private Funds. The historical consolidated financial information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not indicative of the future financial results of our Investment Management segment. In particular, with respect to the historical returns of our Investment Management segment: • Past favorable market conditions and profitable investment opportunities may not occur in the future; • Future returns may be affected by the risks described elsewhere in this report, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular Private Fund invests. Poor performance of the Private Funds could cause a decline in our Investment Management segment revenue and we might not receive incentive allocations or special profits interest allocations for a significant period of time. Our revenue from our Investment Management segment is derived principally from three sources: (1) special profits interest allocations; (2) incentive allocations; and (3) gains or losses in our investments in the Private Funds. In the event that one or more of the Private Funds were to perform poorly, our Investment Management segment revenue could decline and we may not receive special profits interest allocations or incentive allocations. The incentive allocations are subject to a “high watermark,” whereby the General Partners do not earn incentive allocations during a particular year even though the fund had a positive return in such year until losses in prior periods are recovered. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS In the event that the performance of a Private Fund is negative, our Investment Management segment revenue could decline, we will not receive any special profit allocations in future periods from such Private Fund and the amount of the Private Funds’ high watermark with respect to the incentive allocations will increase. Moreover, we could experience losses on our direct investments of our own capital as a result of any such poor performance of the Private Funds. Investors and potential investors in the Private Funds regularly assess the Private Funds’ performance. The ability of the Private Funds to raise capital, and the avoidance of excessive redemption levels, will depend on several factors, including the Private Funds’ continued performance at a level that is satisfactory to investors and potential investors in the Private Funds. We have made significant direct investments in the Private Funds and negative performance of the Private Funds may result in a significant decline in the value of our investments. We have invested an aggregate of $1.7 billion of our capital in the Private Funds and the net asset value thereof as of December 31, 2009 is approximately $1.7 billion. In addition, subsequent to December 31, 2009, we invested an additional $250 million in the Private Funds. If the Private Funds experience negative performance, the value of these investments will be negatively impacted. Successful execution of the Private Funds’ activist investment activities involves many risks, certain of which are outside of our control. The success of the Private Funds’ investment strategy may require, among other things: (i) that our Investment Management segment properly identify companies whose securities prices can be improved through corporate and/or strategic action or successful restructuring of their operations; (ii) that the Private Funds acquire sufficient securities of such companies at a sufficiently attractive price; (iii) that the Private Funds avoid triggering anti-takeover and regulatory obstacles while aggregating their positions; (iv) that management of portfolio companies and other security holders respond positively to our proposals; and (v) that the market price of portfolio companies’ securities increases in response to any actions taken by the portfolio companies. We cannot assure you that any of the foregoing will succeed. The Private Funds’ investment strategy involves numerous and significant risks, including the risk that investors in the Private Funds, including us, may lose some or all of their investments in the Private Funds. This risk may be magnified due to concentration of investments and investments in undervalued securities. Our Investment Management segment’s revenue depends on the investments made by the Private Funds. There are numerous and significant risks associated with these investments, certain of which are described in this risk factor and in other risk factors set forth herein. Certain investment positions in which each Private Fund may have an interest may be illiquid. The Private Funds may own restricted or non-publicly traded securities and securities traded on foreign exchanges. These investments could prevent a Private Fund from liquidating unfavorable positions promptly and subject the Private Fund to substantial losses. At any given time, a Private Fund’s assets may become highly concentrated within a particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or financial or economic market. In that event, the Private Fund’s investment portfolio will be more susceptible to fluctuations in value resulting from adverse economic conditions affecting the performance of that particular company, industry, asset category, trading style or economic market than a less concentrated portfolio would be. As a result, the Private Funds’ investment portfolio could become concentrated and its aggregate return may be volatile and may be affected substantially by the performance of only one or a few holdings. The Private Funds seek to invest in securities that are undervalued. The identification of investment opportunities in undervalued securities is a difficult task, and there are no assurances that such opportunities will be successfully recognized or acquired. While investments in undervalued securities offer the opportunity for above-average capital appreciation, these investments involve a high degree of financial risk and can result in substantial losses. Returns generated from the Private Funds’ investments may not adequately compensate for the business and financial risks assumed. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS From time to time, each Private Fund may invest in bonds or other fixed income securities, such as commercial paper and higher yielding (and, therefore, higher risk) debt securities. It is likely that a major economic recession could severely disrupt the market for such securities and may have a material adverse impact on the value of such securities. In addition, it is likely that any such economic downturn could adversely affect the ability of the issuers of such securities to repay principal and pay interest thereon and increase the incidence of default for such securities. For reasons not necessarily attributable to any of the risks set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (for example, supply/demand imbalances or other market forces), the prices of the securities in which the Private Funds invest may decline substantially. In particular, purchasing assets at what may appear to be undervalued levels is no guarantee that these assets will not be trading at even more undervalued levels at a future time of valuation or at the time of sale. The prices of financial instruments in which the Private Funds may invest can be highly volatile. Price movements of forward and other derivative contracts in which the Private Funds’ assets may be invested are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments, and national and international political and economic events and policies. The Private Funds are subject to the risk of failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses. The use of leverage in investments by the Private Funds may pose a significant degree of risk and may enhance the possibility of significant loss in the value of the investments in the Private Funds. Each Private Fund may leverage its capital if its general partner believes that the use of leverage may enable the Private Fund to achieve a higher rate of return. Accordingly, a Private Fund may pledge its securities in order to borrow additional funds for investment purposes. Each Private Fund may also leverage its investment return with options, short sales, swaps, forwards and other derivative instruments. The amount of borrowings that each Private Fund may have outstanding at any time may be substantial in relation to its capital. While leverage may present opportunities for increasing a Private Fund’s total return, leverage may increase losses as well. Accordingly, any event that adversely affects the value of an investment by a Private Fund would be magnified to the extent such fund is leveraged. The cumulative effect of the use of leverage by each Private Fund in a market that moves adversely to the Private Fund’s investments could result in a substantial loss to the Private Fund that would be greater than if the Private Fund was not leveraged. There is no assurance that leverage will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In general, the use of short-term margin borrowings results in certain additional risks to the Private Funds. For example, should the securities pledged to brokers to secure any Private Fund’s margin accounts decline in value, the Private Fund could be subject to a “margin call,” pursuant to which it must either deposit additional funds or securities with the broker, or suffer mandatory liquidation of the pledged securities to compensate for the decline in value. In the event of a sudden drop in the value of any of the Private Fund’s assets, the Private Fund might not be able to liquidate assets quickly enough to satisfy its margin requirements. Any of the Private Funds may enter into repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. When a Private Fund enters into a repurchase agreement, it “sells” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, to a broker-dealer or financial institution, and agrees to repurchase such securities for the price paid by the broker-dealer or financial institution, plus interest at a negotiated rate. In a reverse repurchase transaction, the Private Fund “buys” securities issued by the U.S. or a non-U.S. government, or agencies thereof, from a broker-dealer or financial institution, subject to the obligation of the broker-dealer or financial institution to repurchase such securities at the price paid by the Private Fund, plus interest at a negotiated rate. The use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements by any of the Private Funds involves certain risks. For example, if the seller of securities to a Private Fund under a reverse repurchase agreement defaults on its obligation to repurchase the underlying securities, as a result of its bankruptcy or otherwise, the Private Fund will seek to dispose of such securities, which action could involve costs or delays. If the seller becomes insolvent and subject to liquidation or reorganization under applicable bankruptcy or other laws, the Private Fund’s ability to dispose of the underlying securities may be restricted. Finally, if a seller defaults on its obligation to repurchase securities under a reverse repurchase agreement, the Private 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fund may suffer a loss to the extent it is forced to liquidate its position in the market, and proceeds from the sale of the underlying securities are less than the repurchase price agreed to by the defaulting seller. The financing used by each Private Fund to leverage its portfolio will be extended by securities brokers and dealers in the marketplace in which the Private Fund invests. While the Private Fund will attempt to negotiate the terms of these financing arrangements with such brokers and dealers, its ability to do so will be limited. The Private Fund is therefore subject to changes in the value that the broker-dealer ascribes to a given security or position, the amount of margin required to support such security or position, the borrowing rate to finance such security or position and/or such broker-dealer’s willingness to continue to provide any such credit to the Private Fund. Because each Private Fund currently has no alternative credit facility which could be used to finance its portfolio in the absence of financing from broker-dealers, it could be forced to liquidate its portfolio on short notice to meet its financing obligations. The forced liquidation of all or a portion of the Private Fund’s portfolios at distressed prices could result in significant losses to the Private Fund. The possibility of increased regulation could result in additional burdens on our Investment Management segment. Changes in tax law could adversely affect us. In the wake of the recent global financial crisis, government and regulatory agencies in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions have imposed certain temporary and permanent regulations and restrictions. Furthermore, as a result of highly publicized financial scandals, government officials and investors have exhibited significant concerns over the integrity of the financial markets. Accordingly, the regulatory environment in which our Investment Management segment operates is subject to further regulation in addition to the rules already promulgated. In particular, in recent years, there has been ongoing debate by U.S. and foreign governments regarding new rules and regulations for private investment funds. Our Investment Management segment may be adversely affected by the enactment of new or revised regulations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of rules and regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. For example, the SEC may require most hedge fund managers to register under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940. Such changes could place limitations on the type of investor that can invest in the Private Funds. Further, such changes may limit the scope of investment activities that may be undertaken by the Private Funds’ managers. Any such changes could increase the cost of our Investment Management segment’s doing business and/or materially adversely impact our profitability. In addition, the SEC may limit the Private Funds’ current exemption from registration as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. Additionally, the securities and futures markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and margin requirements. The SEC, other regulators and self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have taken and are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies. The regulation of derivatives transactions and funds that engage in such transactions is an evolving area of law and is subject to modification by government and judicial action. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Private Funds and the Investment Management segment could be substantial and adverse. In addition, changes in tax law could adversely affect us. Legislation has been introduced in Congress which, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on us. Proposals include legislation which would tax publicly traded partnerships engaged in the Investment Management segment, such as us, as corporations. Other proposals would treat the income from carried interests, when recognized for tax purposes, as ordinary income and as not qualifying as investment income for purposes of the 90% investment income test that publicly traded partnerships must meet to be classified as partnerships. It is unclear whether such legislation will be enacted. Moreover, it is unclear what specific provisions may be enacted, including what the effective date will be, and accordingly what any such legislation’s impact will be on us. It is possible that if such legislation were enacted we would be treated as an association, taxable as a corporation, which would materially increase our taxes. As an alternative, we might be required to restructure our operations, and possibly dispose of certain businesses, in order to avoid or mitigate the impact of any such legislation. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS The investment management industry is intensely competitive. The investment management industry is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality and experience of investment professionals and business reputation. The Private Funds compete for fund investors, investment opportunities and talent with other hedge funds, private equity funds, specialized funds, traditional asset managers, commercial banks and other financial institutions. Several of our competitors have raised, or may raise, significant amounts of capital and many of them have investment objectives similar to the Private Funds, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities for the Private Funds and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit. Our competitors may benefit from a lower cost of capital or have higher risk tolerance or different risk assessments, which may allow them to bid more aggressively than us. The Private Funds may lose investment opportunities in the future if they do not match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Alternatively, the Private Funds may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if they match investment price structures and terms offered by competitors. In addition, changes in the global capital markets could diminish the attractiveness of the Private Funds relative to investments in other investment products. This competitive pressure could materially adversely affect the ability of our Investment Management segment to make successful investments for the Private Funds and reduce the AUM of the Private Funds. These and other factors could reduce our Investment Management segment revenue and earnings and materially adversely affect our Investment Management segment. The failure of Mr. Icahn to participate in the management of the Private Funds could have a material adverse effect on the Private Funds and on us. The success of the Private Funds depends upon the ability of our Investment Management segment to develop and implement investment strategies that achieve the Private Funds’ investment objectives. Subjective decisions made by employees of our Investment Management segment may cause the Private Funds to incur losses or to miss profit opportunities on which the Private Funds would otherwise have capitalized. In the event that Mr. Icahn ceases to participate in the management of the Private Funds, the consequences to the Private Funds and our investment in them could be material and adverse and could lead to the premature termination of the Private Funds. In the event that Mr. Icahn dies, or is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform his duties as chief executive officer of the General Partners for 90 consecutive days, or for any reason other than death, illness or injury ceases to perform those duties, the investors in each of the Private Funds will have certain redemption rights. The occurrence of such an event could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and earnings of our Investment Management segment, and the ability of the Private Funds to maintain or grow their AUM. Such redemptions could possibly lead to a liquidation of one or more of the Private Funds and a corresponding elimination of our potential to earn special profits interest allocations and incentive allocations. The loss of Mr. Icahn could, therefore, ultimately result in a loss of substantially all of the earnings of our Investment Management segment. The Private Funds make investments in companies we do not control. Investments by the Private Funds include investments in debt or equity securities of publicly traded companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by a Private Fund through open market trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. These investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which our Investment Management segment disagree or that the majority of stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve the best interests of the Private Fund. In addition, a Private Fund may make investments in which it shares control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for it to implement its investment approach or exit the investment when it otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of the investments by the Private Funds could decrease and our Investment Management segment revenues could suffer as a result. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS The ability to hedge investments successfully is subject to numerous risks. The Private Funds may utilize financial instruments, both for investment purposes and for risk management purposes in order to (i) protect against possible changes in the market value of a Private Fund’s investment portfolios resulting from fluctuations in the securities markets and changes in interest rates; (ii) protect a Private Fund’s unrealized gains in the value of its investment portfolios; (iii) facilitate the sale of any such investments; (iv) enhance or preserve returns, spreads or gains on any investment in the Private Fund’s portfolio; (v) hedge the interest rate or currency exchange rate on any of the Private Fund’s liabilities or assets; (vi) protect against any increase in the price of any securities our Investment Management segment anticipate purchasing at a later date; or (vii) for any other reason that our Investment Management segment deem appropriate. The success of any hedging activities will depend, in part, upon the degree of correlation between the performance of the instruments used in the hedging strategy and the performance of the portfolio investments being hedged. However, hedging techniques may not always be possible or effective in limiting potential risks of loss. Since the characteristics of many securities change as markets change or time passes, the success of our Investment Management segment’s hedging strategy will also be subject to the ability of our Investment Management segment to continually recalculate, readjust and execute hedges in an efficient and timely manner. While a Private Fund may enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce risk, such transactions may result in a poorer overall performance for the Private Fund than if it had not engaged in such hedging transactions. For a variety of reasons, a Private Fund may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between the hedging instruments utilized and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Such an imperfect correlation may prevent the Private Fund from achieving the intended hedge or expose the Private Fund to risk of loss. Each Private Fund does not intend to seek to hedge every position and may determine not to hedge against a particular risk for various reasons, including, but not limited to, because it does not regard the probability of the risk occurring to be sufficiently high as to justify the cost of the hedge. Our Investment Management segment may not foresee the occurrence of the risk and therefore may not hedge against all risks. We are subject to third-party litigation risks attributable to our Investment Management segment that could result in significant liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Some of the tactics that the Private Funds may use involve litigation. The Private Funds could be a party to lawsuits that they initiate or that are initiated by a company in which the Private Funds invest, other shareholders, or state and federal governmental bodies. There can be no assurance that litigation, once begun, would be resolved in favor of the Private Funds. In addition, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by a Private Fund’s investors if our Investment Management segment’s management of the Private Funds is alleged to constitute gross negligence, willful misconduct or dishonesty or breach of contract or organizational documents. Further, the Private Funds may be subject to third-party litigation arising from investors’ dissatisfaction with the performance of the Private Funds or based on claims that it improperly exercised control or influence over portfolio investments. Our Investment Management segment may also be exposed to the risk of litigation or investigation by investors or regulators relating to transactions which presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed. In such actions, we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may exceed our available insurance coverage). In addition, our rights to indemnification from the applicable Private Funds may be challenged. Certain of the Private Funds are incorporated or formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands laws, particularly with respect to shareholder rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, may differ from the laws of the United States and could possibly change to the detriment of the applicable Private Fund. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Private Funds may invest in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose the Private Funds to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States. Investments in securities of non-U.S. issuers (including non-U.S. governments) and securities denominated or whose prices are quoted in non-U.S. currencies pose, to the extent not successfully hedged, currency exchange risks (including blockage, devaluation and non-exchangeability), as well as a range of other potential risks, which could include expropriation, confiscatory taxation, imposition of withholding or other taxes on dividends, interest, capital gains or other income, political or social instability, illiquidity, price volatility and market manipulation. In addition, less information may be available regarding securities of non-U.S. issuers, and non-U.S. issuers may not be subject to accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and requirements comparable to, or as uniform as, those of U.S. issuers. Transaction costs of investing in non-U.S. securities markets are generally higher than in the United States. There is generally less government supervision and regulation of exchanges, brokers and issuers than there is in the United States. The Private Funds may have greater difficulty taking appropriate legal action in non-U.S. courts. Non-U.S. markets also have different clearance and settlement procedures which in some markets have at times failed to keep pace with the volume of transactions, thereby creating substantial delays and settlement failures that could adversely affect the Private Funds’ performance. Investments in non-U.S. markets may result in imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to such securities. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not materially adversely affect the Private Funds’ investments that are held in certain countries or the returns from these investments. The Private Funds invest in distressed securities, as well as bank loans, asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities. The Private Funds may invest in securities of U.S. and non-U.S. issuers in weak financial condition, experiencing poor operating results, having substantial capital needs or negative net worth, facing special competitive or product obsolescence problems, or that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. Investments of this type may involve substantial financial, legal and business risks that can result in substantial, or at times even total, losses. The market prices of such securities are subject to abrupt and erratic market movements and above-average price volatility. It may take a number of years for the market price of such securities to reflect their intrinsic value. In liquidation (both in and out of bankruptcy) and other forms of corporate insolvency and reorganization, there exists the risk that the reorganization either will be unsuccessful (due to, for example, failure to obtain requisite approvals), will be delayed (for example, until various liabilities, actual or contingent, have been satisfied) or will result in a distribution of cash, assets or a new security the value of which will be less than the purchase price to the Private Funds of the security in respect to which such distribution was made and the terms of which may render such security illiquid. The Private Funds’ investments are subject to numerous additional risks, certain of which are described below. • Generally, there are few limitations set forth in the offering documents of the Private Funds on the execution of their investment activities, which are subject to the sole discretion of our Investment Management segment. • A Private Fund may buy or sell (or write) both call options and put options, and when it writes options, it may do so on a covered or an uncovered basis. When the Private Fund sells (or writes) an option, the risk can be substantially greater than when it buys an option. The seller of an uncovered call option bears the risk of an increase in the market price of the underlying security above the exercise price. The risk is theoretically unlimited unless the option is covered. If it is covered, the Private Fund would forego the opportunity for profit on the underlying security should the market price of the security rise above the exercise price. Swaps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the swap counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the swap counterparty, market risk, liquidity risk and operations risk. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS • The ability of the Private Funds to execute a short selling strategy may be materially adversely impacted by temporary and/or new permanent rules, interpretations, prohibitions, and restrictions adopted in response to adverse market events. Regulatory authorities may from time-to-time impose restrictions that adversely affect the Private Funds’ ability to borrow certain securities in connection with short sale transactions. In addition, traditional lenders of securities might be less likely to lend securities under certain market conditions. As a result, the Private Funds may not be able to effectively pursue a short selling strategy due to a limited supply of securities available for borrowing. • The Private Funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to a theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. The Private Funds may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the borrowed securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the Private Funds are otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions. There can be no assurance that the Private Funds will be able to maintain the ability to borrow securities sold short. There also can be no assurance that the securities necessary to cover a short position will be available for purchase at or near prices quoted in the market. • The Private Funds may effect transactions through over-the-counter or interdealer markets. The participants in such markets are typically not subject to credit evaluation and regulatory oversight as are members of exchange-based markets. This exposes the Private Funds to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the Private Fund to suffer a loss. Such “counterparty risk” is accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where a Private Fund has concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of its counterparties. The Private Funds are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of the Private Funds transactions with one counterparty. • Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by other institutions. This systemic risk may materially adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as prime brokers, clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the Private Funds interact on a daily basis. • The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. The Private Funds’ trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the Private Funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall positions were to need adjustment, the Private Funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the Private Funds may not be able to achieve the market position selected by our Investment Management segment and might incur a loss in liquidating their position. • Each Private Fund’s assets may be held in one or more accounts maintained for the Private Fund by its prime broker or at other brokers or custodian banks, which may be located in various jurisdictions. The prime broker, other brokers (including those acting as sub-custodians) and custodian banks are subject to various laws and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions in the event of their insolvency. Accordingly, the practical effect of these laws and their application to the Private Fund’s assets may be subject to substantial variations, limitations and uncertainties. The insolvency of any of the prime brokers, local brokers, custodian banks or clearing corporations may result in the loss of all or a substantial portion of the Private Fund’s assets or in a significant delay in the Private Fund having access to those assets. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS • A Private Fund may invest in synthetic instruments that will usually have a contractual relationship only with the counterparty of the synthetic security. In the event of the insolvency of any counterparty, the Private Fund’s recourse will be limited to the collateral, if any, posted by the counterparty and, in the absence of collateral, the Private Fund will be treated as a general creditor of the counterparty. While the Private Fund expects that returns on a synthetic financial instrument may reflect those of each related reference obligation, as a result of the terms of the synthetic financial instrument and the assumption of the credit risk of the counterparty, a synthetic financial instrument may have a different expected return, a different (and potentially greater) probability of default and different expected loss and recovery characteristics following a default. Upon the occurrence of a credit event, maturity, acceleration or other termination of a synthetic financial instrument, the terms of the synthetic financial instrument may permit or require the counterparty to satisfy its obligations under the synthetic financial instrument by delivering to the Private Fund one or more deliverable obligations (which may not be the reference obligation) or a cash payment (which may be less than the then-current market value of the reference obligation). In addition, a synthetic financial instrument may provide for early termination at a price based upon a marked-to-market valuation, which may be less than the principal or notional amount of the synthetic security. A Private Fund may also invest in credit default swaps. The credit default swap market is rapidly evolving and substantial changes to the terms and conditions under which these financial instruments are traded have recently been revised. Additional revisions and regulatory reform should also be expected in the near future. Automotive Adverse conditions in the automotive market adversely affect demand for Federal-Mogul’s products and expose Federal-Mogul to credit risks of its customers. Federal-Mogul’s revenues are closely tied to global OE automobile sales, production levels and independent aftermarket parts replacement activity. The OE market is characterized by short-term volatility, with overall expected long-term growth in global vehicle sales and production. Automotive production in the local markets served by Federal-Mogul can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory and legislative oversight requirements and trade agreements. A variation in the level of automobile production would affect not only sales to OE customers but, depending on the reasons for the change, could impact demand from aftermarket customers. Federal-Mogul’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if Federal-Mogul fails to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the demand for its products. Relative to the global automotive industry, the financial stability of the United States automotive industry has been deteriorating. Several companies have announced significant restructuring activities to eliminate excess capacity, reduce costs and achieve other benefits normally associated with restructuring activities. Continued declines in the automotive production levels of Federal-Mogul’s major OE customers, particularly with respect to platforms for which Federal-Mogul is a significant supplier, could materially reduce sales and harm Federal-Mogul’s profitability. Accounts receivable potentially subject Federal-Mogul to concentrations of credit risk. Federal-Mogul’s customer base includes virtually every significant global automotive manufacturer, numerous Tier 1 automotive suppliers and a large number of distributors and installers of automotive aftermarket parts. The financial distress of Federal-Mogul’s OE customers and within the supply base could significantly affect its operating performance. During fiscal 2009, many of Federal-Mogul’s OE customers continued to lower production levels due to a reduction in end-customer demand. Several other global automotive manufacturers are also experiencing operating and profitability issues as well as labor concerns. In this environment, it is difficult to forecast future OE customer production schedules, the potential for labor disputes or the success or sustainability of any strategies undertaken by any of Federal-Mogul’s customers in response to the current industry environment. This environment may also put additional pricing pressure on suppliers to reduce the cost of products, which would reduce Federal-Mogul’s margins. In addition, cuts in production schedules are also sometimes 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS announced by Federal-Mogul’s OE customers with little advance notice, making it difficult for Federal-Mogul to respond with corresponding cost reductions. Federal-Mogul’s supply base has also been adversely affected by industry conditions. Lower production levels for OEMs and increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs have resulted in severe financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. Several large suppliers and customers have filed for bankruptcy protection or ceased operations. Unfavorable industry conditions have also resulted in financial distress within Federal-Mogul’s supply base and an increase in commercial disputes and the risk of supply disruption. In addition, the adverse industry environment has required Federal-Mogul to provide financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to ensure uninterrupted production. While Federal-Mogul has taken certain actions to mitigate these factors, Federal-Mogul has offset only a portion of their overall impact on its operating results. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions would adversely affect Federal-Mogul’s profitability, operating results and cash flow. Federal-Mogul’s operations in foreign countries exposes our Automotive segment to risks related to economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations and import/export restrictions: Federal-Mogul has manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries. International operations are subject to certain risks including: • exposure to local economic conditions; • exposure to local political conditions (including the risk of seizure of assets by foreign governments); • currency exchange rate fluctuations (including, but not limited to, material exchange rate fluctuations, such as devaluations) and currency controls; and • export and import restrictions. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on our Federal-Mogul are unpredictable and vary from country to country. Certain of Federal-Mogul’s operating entities report their financial condition and results of operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (including, but not limited to, Brazilian real, British pound, Chinese yuan renminbi, Czech crown, euro, Indian rupee, Mexican peso, Polish zloty, Russian ruble and Venezuelan bolivar). In reporting its consolidated statements of operations, Federal-Mogul translates the reported results of these entities into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the dollar against foreign currencies will affect the value at which the results of these entities are included within Federal-Mogul’s consolidated results. Federal-Mogul is exposed to a risk of gain or loss from changes in foreign exchange rates whenever Federal-Mogul, or one of its foreign subsidiaries, enters into a purchase or sales agreement in a currency other than its functional currency. While Federal-Mogul reduces such exposure by matching most revenues and costs within the same currency, changes in exchange rates could impact its financial condition or results of operations. Federal-Mogul has substantial indebtedness, which could restrict its business activities and could subject Federal-Mogul to significant interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2009, Federal-Mogul had approximately $2.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness. Federal-Mogul is permitted by the terms of its debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. Federal-Mogul’s inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on its Federal-Mogul’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Federal-Mogul’s indebtedness could: • limit its ability to borrow money for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS • require Federal-Mogul to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments on indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; • increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limit its ability to respond to business opportunities. A significant portion of Federal-Mogul’s indebtedness accrues interest at variable rates. To the extent market interest rates rise, the cost of Federal-Mogul’s debt would increase, adversely affecting Federal-Mogul’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Federal-Mogul is subject to possible insolvency of financial counterparties. Federal-Mogul engages in numerous financial transactions and contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit line agreements, financial derivatives (including interest rate swaps), and investment management agreements involving various counterparties. Federal-Mogul is subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to discharge its obligations under such contracts. The automotive industry is highly competitive and Federal-Mogul’s success depends upon its ability to compete effectively in the market. Federal-Mogul operates in an extremely competitive industry, driven by global vehicle production volumes and part replacement trends. Business is typically awarded to the supplier offering the most favorable combination of cost, quality, technology and service. In addition, customers continue to require periodic price reductions that require Federal-Mogul to continually assess, redefine and improve its operations, products and manufacturing capabilities to maintain and improve profitability. Federal-Mogul’s management continues to develop and execute initiatives to meet the challenges of the industry and to achieve its strategy; however, there can be no assurance that Federal-Mogul will be able to compete effectively in the automotive market. If Federal-Mogul loses any of its executive officers or key employees, Federal-Mogul’s operations and ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of its business may be materially adversely affected. Federal-Mogul’s future performance substantially depends on its ability to retain and motivate executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. If Federal-Mogul loses any of its executive officers or key employees, which have many years of experience with Federal-Mogul and within the automotive industry and other manufacturing industries, or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, its ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of its business may be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or key employees, who also have strong personal ties with customers and suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The employment agreement of José Maria Alapont, Federal-Mogul’s President and Chief Executive Officer since March 1, 2005, expires on March 23, 2010. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that Mr. Alapont will not retire and will remain as President and Chief Executive Officer of Federal-Mogul upon expiration of his employment agreement. The loss of Mr. Alapont’s services could have a material adverse effect on Federal-Mogul’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal-Mogul does not currently maintain “key person” life insurance. Federal-Mogul’s pension obligations and other post employment benefits could adversely impact its operating margins and cash flows. The automotive industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the rising cost of providing pension and other post employment benefits. In addition, Federal-Mogul sponsors certain defined benefit plans worldwide that are underfunded and will require cash payments. If the performance of the assets in the pension plans does not meet our expectations, or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our required contributions may be higher than we expect. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS Federal-Mogul may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that involve inherent risks, any of which may cause it not to realize anticipated benefits, and Federal-Mogul may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that may be acquired, which may adversely affect its results of operations. In the past, Federal-Mogul has grown through acquisitions, and may engage in acquisitions in the future as part of its sustainable global profitable growth strategy. The full benefits of these acquisitions, however, require integration of manufacturing, administrative, financial, sales and marketing approaches and personnel. If Federal-Mogul is unable to successfully integrate its acquisitions, it may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions, the financial results may be negatively affected, or additional cash may be required to integrate such operations. In the future, Federal-Mogul may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. Federal-Mogul’s identification of suitable acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities and the integration of acquired business operations involve risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of these opportunities. This includes the effects on its business, diversion of management’s attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or unforeseen liabilities, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of its business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. These difficulties could be further increased to the extent Federal-Mogul pursues acquisition or joint venture opportunities internationally. Federal-Mogul may not be effective in retaining key employees or customers of the combined businesses. Federal-Mogul may face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls and operations functions of the acquired companies and also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that were anticipated when selecting the acquisition candidates. Federal-Mogul may experience managerial or other conflicts with its joint venture partners. Any of these items could adversely affect its results of operations. Federal-Mogul’s failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict its ability to grow its business. If Federal-Mogul is successful in pursuing future acquisitions or joint ventures, it may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt and/or issue additional securities, which may materially adversely affect results of its operations. If Federal-Mogul spends significant funds or incurs additional debt, its ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline and Federal-Mogul may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. Federal-Mogul’s restructuring activities may not result in the anticipated synergies and cost savings. Federal-Mogul expects to continue to incur restructuring expenses and related costs through fiscal 2010 in connection with its sustainable global profitable growth strategy. It is possible that such costs could vary from initially projected amounts or that achieving the expected synergies and cost savings will require additional costs or charges to earnings in future periods. It is also possible that the expected synergies may not be achieved. Any costs or charges could adversely impact its business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Certain disruptions in supply of and changes in the competitive environment for raw materials could adversely affect Federal-Mogul’s operating margins and cash flows. Federal-Mogul purchases a broad range of materials, components and finished parts. Federal-Mogul also uses a significant amount of energy, both electricity and natural gas, in the production of its products. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials, supplies and energy or the failure of a supplier with whom Federal-Mogul has established a single source supply relationship could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase operating costs and materially adversely affect profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets where Federal-Mogul purchases 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS material, components and supplies for the production of products or where the products are produced, distributed or sold, whether as a result of labor strife, war, further acts of terrorism or otherwise, in each case may adversely affect profitability. In recent periods there have been significant fluctuations in the prices of aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, platinum, resins, steel, other base metals and energy which have had and may continue to have an unfavorable impact on Federal-Mogul’s business. Any continued fluctuations in the price or availability of energy and materials may have an adverse effect on Federal-Mogul’s results of operations or financial condition. To address increased costs associated with these market forces, a number of Federal-Mogul’s suppliers have implemented surcharges on existing fixed price contracts. Without the surcharge, some suppliers claim they will be unable to provide adequate supply. Competitive and marketing pressures may limit Federal-Mogul’s ability to pass some of the supply and material cost increases onto its customers, particularly with domestic vehicle manufacturers, and may prevent Federal-Mogul from doing so in the future. Furthermore, Federal-Mogul’s customers are generally not obligated to accept price increases that Federal-Mogul may desire to pass along to them. This inability to pass on price increases to customers when material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than historic levels could adversely affect its operating margins and cash flow, possibly resulting in lower operating income and profitability. Federal-Mogul’s hedging activities to address commodity price fluctuations may not be successful in offsetting future increases in those costs or may reduce or eliminate the benefits of any decreases in those costs. In order to mitigate short-term variation in operating results due to the aforementioned commodity price fluctuations, Federal-Mogul hedges a portion of near-term exposure to certain raw materials used in production processes, primarily natural gas, copper, nickel, lead, platinum, high-grade aluminum and aluminum alloy. The results of Federal-Mogul’s hedging practice could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes in the hedged exposures. Federal-Mogul’s hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect from long-term commodity price increases. Federal-Mogul’s future hedging positions may not correlate to actual energy or raw materials costs, which would cause acceleration in the recognition of unrealized gains and losses on hedging positions in operating results. Federal-Mogul is subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and the cost of complying, or Federal-Mogul’s failure to comply, with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal-Mogul is subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment, the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous waste materials, or otherwise relating to the protection of public and employee health, safety and the environment. These laws and regulations expose Federal-Mogul to liability for the environmental condition of its current facilities, and also may expose Federal-Mogul to liability for the conduct of others or for Federal-Mogul’s actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. These laws and regulations also may expose Federal-Mogul to liability for claims of personal injury or property damage related to alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic materials in foreign countries where such liability has not been resolved through Federal-Mogul’s 524(g) Trust. Despite Federal-Mogul’s intention to be in compliance with all such laws and regulations, Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that it will at all times be in compliance with all such requirements. The cost of complying with these requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If Federal-Mogul violates or fails to comply with these requirements, Federal-Mogul could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. These requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Federal-Mogul’s failure to maintain and comply with environmental permits that it is required to maintain could result in fines or penalties or other sanctions and have a material adverse effect on its operations or results. Future events, such as new environmental regulations or changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, newly discovered information or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions and results of operations. Federal-Mogul is involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes, which could have an adverse impact on its profitability and consolidated financial position. Federal-Mogul is involved in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes that, from time to time, are significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, environmental issues, tax matters and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on its profitability and consolidated financial position. If Federal-Mogul is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, its ability to compete in the market may be harmed. Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent Federal-Mogul’s competitors from duplicating its products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit Federal-Mogul to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Any of Federal-Mogul’s patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any reason. If Federal-Mogul’s patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded to Federal-Mogul’s products could be impaired, which could significantly impede Federal-Mogul’s ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect its business and results of operations. Federal-Mogul’s pending or future patent applications may not result in an issued patent. Additionally, newly issued patents may not provide Federal-Mogul with meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The United States federal courts may invalidate Federal-Mogul’s patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around Federal-Mogul’s patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on its sales. If Federal-Mogul’s intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, it may not be able to commercialize its technologies, products or services and its competitors could commercialize its technologies, which could result in a decrease in Federal-Mogul’s sales and market share, and could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal-Mogul’s products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and could prevent Federal-Mogul from using technology that is essential to its products. Federal-Mogul cannot guarantee that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against Federal-Mogul, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm its reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of its business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force Federal-Mogul to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect Federal-Mogul’s revenue; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or Federal-Mogul’s failure to license essential technology, Federal-Mogul’s sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal-Mogul may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would phase-in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if enacted into law. The U.S. Senate is considering a different bill, and it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries in which our Automotive segment operates have adopted the Kyoto Protocol, and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect its international operations. These actions could increase costs associated with Federal-Mogul’s operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our Automotive segment and on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Metals The principal markets served by our scrap metals business are highly competitive. We may have difficulty competing with companies that have a lower cost structure than ours. Our scrap metals business operates in a highly competitive environment. We primarily provide services to industrial companies. Many other companies offer the same or similar services and compete with our metals business on a number of bases including, but not limited to: (i) price; (ii) quality of service; (iii) proximity to the consumer; (iv) proximity to sources of supply; (v) local or regional presence; (vi) technology; (vii) safety performance; and (viii) financial strength. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do either nationally or in the particular locale in which they operate. Some of these competitors are larger and have more diverse businesses than we do. In addition, we also face increased competition from steel mills that are vertically integrated into the scrap metal business. Some of our foreign competitors may be able to pursue business opportunities without regard for the laws and regulations with which we must comply, such as environmental regulations. These companies may have a lower cost structure, more operating flexibility and consequently they may be able to offer better prices and more services than we can. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies. In addition to larger companies, we compete with many smaller competitors operating locally in this highly fragmented market. Some of the companies may have lower operating costs and may be able to compete more effectively on price. Prices of commodities are volatile and markets are competitive. We are exposed to commodity price risk during the period that we have title to products that are held in inventory for processing and/or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap metals, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions; • labor costs; • competition; 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS • financial condition of our major customers; • access and costs associated with transportation systems; • the availability of imports; • the availability and relative pricing of scrap metal substitutes; and • import duties, ocean freight costs, tariffs and currency exchange rates. In an increasing price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment for processed scrap, we may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw scrap metal we process and sell to our customers. New entrants into our markets could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our scrap metals. Prices in the scrap metal industry are established and adjusted monthly by the major steel producers. The price of ferrous scrap is a significant factor influencing the profitability of the scrap metals industry. Increases in steel imports could adversely affect the demand for scrap metals domestically. Our scrap metals business may be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the United States, which will have an adverse impact on domestic steel production and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for scrap metals domestically. Additionally, our scrap metals business could be negatively affected by strengthening in the U.S. dollar or increased freight costs which could negatively impact export sales and a stronger U.S. dollar could also attract imports of scrap or scrap substitutes, reducing demand for our scrap metals. A significant increase in the use of scrap metals alternatives by consumers of processed scrap metals could reduce demand for our products. During periods of high demand for scrap metals, tightness can develop in the supply and demand for ferrous scrap. The relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly prime or industrial grades, and its high price during such periods have created opportunities for producers of alternatives to scrap metals, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets and others. Although these alternatives have not been a major factor in the industry to date, we cannot assure you that the use of alternatives to scrap metals may not proliferate in the future if the prices for scrap metals rise, if the supplies of available unprepared ferrous scrap tighten or if costs to import scrap decline precipitously. The profitability of our scrap recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply. As part of our scrap metals business we procure scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their scrap collection activities. If a substantial number of scrap suppliers cease selling scrap metals to us, our scrap metals business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a slowdown of industrial production in the United States would reduce the supply of industrial grades of scrap metal to the scrap metals recycling industry, resulting in our scrap metals business having less scrap to process and market. Our scrap metals business presents significant risk of injury or death. Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of serious injury or death to our employees or other visitors notwithstanding the safety precautions we take. Our scrap metals business is subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. While we have in place policies to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any death or injury that may occur in the future and these types of incidents may have a material adverse effect on our scrap metals business. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our scrap metals business is subject to stringent regulations, particularly under applicable environmental laws. We are subject to comprehensive local, state and federal statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among others: • the acceptance, storage, handling and disposal of solid, hazardous and Toxic Substances Control Act waste; • the discharge of materials into the air; • the management and treatment of wastewater and storm water; • the remediation of soil and groundwater contamination; • the restoration of natural resource damages; and • the protection of our employees’ health and safety. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable statutes and regulations governing the protection of human health and the environment, including employee health and safety. We can give you no assurance, however, that we will continue to be in material compliance or avoid material fines, penalties and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future. Such laws and regulations also require manifests to be completed and delivered in connection with any shipment of prescribed materials so that the movement and disposal of such materials can be traced and the persons responsible for any mishandling of such materials identified. Regulatory requirements may also be imposed as conditions of operating permits or licenses both initially and upon renewal or modification. As part of our scrap metals business, we must properly remove, handle, recycle or dispose of waste materials or incur liability. Transportation, transfer, storage and disposal of waste are difficult and accidents may occur. These laws and regulations are stringent and are likely to become more stringent. Existing and new laws and regulations may require our scrap metals business to modify, supplement, replace or curtail its operating methods or to modify or replace facilities or equipment at costs that may be substantial without any corresponding increase in revenues. Hazardous substances are present in some of the processing, transfer and storage facilities owned or leased by our scrap metal business and landfill facilities used by our scrap metals business. Remediation may be required at these sites at substantial cost. We cannot assure you that the ultimate cost and expense of corrective action will not substantially exceed any reserves and have a material adverse impact on our scrap metals business. In addition, governments have from time to time required companies to remediate sites where materials were properly disposed because those governments have instituted higher standards. We are required to obtain, and must comply with, various permits and licenses to conduct our scrap metals business. Failure to obtain or violations of any permit or license, if not remedied, could result in our incurring substantial fines, suspension of our scrap metals business or closure of a site. Further, our scrap metals business is conducted primarily outdoors and as such, depending on the nature of the ground cover, involves the risk of releases of wastes and other regulated materials to the soil and, possibly, to groundwater. From time to time, as part of our continuous improvement programs, we incur costs to improve environmental control systems. Our scrap metals business may be subject to public opposition and adverse publicity that could delay or limit our scrap metals development and expansion. A high level of public concern exists over industrial by-products recovery operations, including the location and operation of transfer, processing, storage and disposal facilities and the collection, processing or handling of industrial by-products and waste materials, particularly hazardous materials. Zoning, permit and licensing applications and proceedings and regulatory enforcement proceedings are all matters open to public scrutiny and comment. As a result, from time to time, our scrap metals business may be subject to citizen opposition and adverse publicity that may have a negative effect on operations and delay or limit the expansion and developing of operating properties, and could have a material adverse effect on our scrap metals operation. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS The economic downturn could substantially reduce the demand for our products. Our scrap metals business is substantially dependent upon the overall economic conditions in the United States and other global markets. The economic climate could substantially decrease the demand for our scrap metals products and adversely affect our scrap metals business. Ferrous and non-ferrous scrap has been historically vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during prolonged periods of economic downturn. The downturn in the construction, auto, industrial equipment and other industries could adversely affect the sales and profitability of our scrap metals business. We may be unable to obtain adequate environmental insurance. Our scrap metals business is subject to potential liability for personal injuries and property damage caused by releases of hazardous substances and for remediation of risks posed by hazardous substances. Consistent with industry trends, we may be unable to obtain an adequate amount of environmental impairment insurance for our scrap metals business at a reasonable premium to cover liability to third persons for environmental damage. Accordingly, if our scrap metals business were to incur liability for environmental damage either not provided for under such coverage or in excess of such coverage, our scrap metals business could be materially or adversely affected. Equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Our scrap metals business’ recycling and manufacturing processes depend, in part, upon shredders, which could be out of service temporarily as a result of unanticipated failures. As a result, we may experience interruptions in our scrap metals business’ processing and production capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Real Estate The economic downturn may continue to have a more adverse effect on the residential real estate market than on other industries and its recovery may lag behind the economy as a whole. Our residential development sales activity continued at a slow pace in fiscal 2009, particularly for our Florida properties. Sales of our vacation properties in New Seabury, Massachusetts and Florida rely heavily on favorable credit markets and a robust economy. Sale or leasing, including lease renewals, of the commercial properties in our net lease portfolio also rely heavily on financially healthy buyers and tenants. To the extent current conditions continue, the value of our real estate portfolio may continue to decline. We cannot assure that we will be able to recoup our investments in our residential properties or continue to sell or lease our commercial properties at profitable rates. Our investment in property development may be more costly than anticipated. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in unentitled land, undeveloped land and distressed development properties. These properties involve more risk than properties on which development has been completed. Unentitled land may not be approved for development. These investments do not generate any operating revenue, while costs are incurred to obtain government approvals and develop the properties. Construction may not be completed within budget or as scheduled and projected rental levels or sales prices may not be achieved and other unpredictable contingencies beyond our control could occur. We will not be able to recoup any of such costs until such time as these properties, or parcels thereof, are either disposed of or developed into income-producing assets. We may face adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies. The bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants in our retail, industrial and office properties may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject or terminate its lease with us. We may also incur additional vacancy and other re-tenanting expense. We may be subject to environmental liability as an owner or operator of development and rental real estate. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances, 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS pollutants and contaminants released on, under, in or from its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such substances. To the extent any such substances are found in or on any property invested in by us, we could be exposed to liability and be required to incur substantial remediation costs. The presence of such substances or the failure to undertake proper remediation may adversely affect the ability to finance, refinance or dispose of such property. We generally conduct a Phase I environmental site assessment on properties in which we are considering investing. A Phase I environmental site assessment involves record review, visual site assessment and personnel interviews, but does not typically include invasive testing procedures such as air, soil or groundwater sampling or other tests performed as part of a Phase II environmental site assessment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any assessments we conduct will disclose all potential liabilities or that future property uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or activities at nearby properties will not result in the creation of environmental liabilities with respect to a property. Home Fashion Pending legal proceedings may result in our ownership of WPI’s common stock being reduced to less than 50%. A legal action in Delaware challenges the issuance to us of the preferred stock of WPI. Uncertainties arising from these proceedings may adversely affect WPI’s operations and prospects and the value of our investment in it. As of December 31, 2009, we owned approximately 67.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock and 100% of the preferred stock of WPI. As a result of a decision of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York reversing certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Court order pursuant to which we acquired our ownership of a majority of the common stock of WPI, the proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court on remand and the proceedings filed in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware, our percentage of the outstanding shares of common stock of WPI could be reduced to less than 50% and perhaps substantially less and our ownership of the preferred stock of WPI could also be affected. If we were to lose control of WPI, it could adversely affect the business and prospects of WPI and the value of our investment in it. In addition, we consolidated the balance sheet of WPI as of December 31, 2009 and WPI’s results of operations for the period from the date of acquisition (August 8, 2005) through December 31, 2009. If we were to own less than 50% of the outstanding common stock or the challenge to our preferred stock ownership is successful, we would have to evaluate whether we should consolidate WPI and if so our financial statements could be materially different than as presented as of December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. We cannot assure you that WPI will be able to operate profitably. WPI operated at a loss during fiscal 2009, and we expect that WPI will continue to operate at a loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. We cannot assure you that it will be able to operate profitably in the future. The loss of any of WPI’s large customers could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. During fiscal 2009, WPI’s six largest customers accounted for approximately 59% of its net sales. Other retailers have indicated that they intend to significantly increase their direct sourcing of home fashion products from foreign sources. The loss of any of WPI’s largest accounts, or a material portion of sales to those accounts, would have an adverse effect upon WPI’s business, which could be material. A portion of WPI’s sales are derived from licensed designer brands. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect on WPI’s business. A portion of WPI’s sales is derived from licensed designer brands. The license agreements for WPI’s designer brands generally are for a term of one to three years. Some of the licenses are automatically renewable for additional periods, provided that sales thresholds set forth in the license agreements are met. The loss of a significant license could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s business, which could be material. Under certain circumstances, these licenses can be terminated without WPI’s consent due to circumstances beyond WPI’s control. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS WPI’s international operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations, all of which could impair its ability to do business at the U.S. and international level. WPI currently has manufacturing or sales and distribution centers in two foreign countries: Pakistan and Bahrain. Its international sales and operations may be subject to various political and economic risks including, but not limited to: possible unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations or hyperinflation; changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; governmental regulations, including import and export controls; tariffs; limits on the repatriation of funds; and taxes. Should any of these risks occur, it could impair WPI’s ability to export its products to the United States or result in a loss of sales and profits from its U.S. and international operations. A shortage of the principal raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could force WPI to pay more for those materials and, possibly, cause WPI to increase its prices, which could have an adverse effect on WPI’s operations. Any shortage in the raw materials WPI uses to manufacture its products could adversely affect its operations. The principal raw materials that WPI uses in the manufacture of its products are cotton of various grades and staple lengths and polyester and nylon in staple and filament form. Since cotton is an agricultural product, its supply and quality are subject to weather patterns, disease and other factors. The price of cotton is also influenced by supply and demand considerations, both domestically and worldwide, and by the cost of polyester. Although WPI has been able to acquire sufficient quantities of cotton for its operations in the past, any shortage in the cotton supply by reason of weather patterns, disease or other factors, or a significant increase in the price of cotton, could adversely affect its operations. The price of man-made fibers, such as polyester and nylon, is influenced by demand, manufacturing capacity and costs, petroleum prices, cotton prices and the cost of polymers used in producing these fibers. In particular, the effect of increased energy prices may have a direct impact upon the cost of dye and chemicals, polyester and other synthetic fibers. Any significant prolonged petrochemical shortages could significantly affect the availability of man-made fibers and could cause a substantial increase in demand for cotton. This could result in decreased availability of cotton and possibly increased prices and could adversely affect WPI’s operations. The home fashion industry is highly competitive and WPI’s success depends on its ability to compete effectively in the market. The home fashion industry is highly competitive. WPI’s future success will, to a large extent, depend on its ability to remain a low-cost producer and to remain competitive. WPI competes with both foreign and domestic companies on, among other factors, the basis of price, quality and customer service. In the home fashion market, WPI competes with many companies. WPI’s future success depends on its ability to remain competitive in the areas of marketing, product development, price, quality, brand names, manufacturing capabilities, distribution and order processing. Any failure to compete effectively could adversely affect WPI’s sales and, accordingly, its operations. Additionally, the easing of trade restrictions over time has led to growing competition from low priced products imported from Asia and Latin America. The lifting of import quotas in 2005 has accelerated the loss of WPI’s market share. There can be no assurance that the foreign competition will not grow to a level that could have an adverse effect upon WPI’s ability to compete effectively. WPI has increased the percentage of its products that are made outside of the United States and is subject to additional risks relating to doing business overseas. WPI has increased the percentage of its products that are made overseas and faces additional risks associated with these efforts. Adverse factors that WPI may encounter include: • logistical challenges caused by distance; • language and cultural differences; • legal and regulatory restrictions; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements with overseas suppliers; 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability; and • potential adverse tax consequences. WPI continues to restructure its operations but these efforts may not be successful. To improve WPI’s competitive position, WPI intends to continue to significantly reduce its cost of goods sold by restructuring some of its remaining operations in the plants located in the United States, increasing production within its non-U.S. facilities and joint venture operation and sourcing goods from lower-cost overseas facilities and vendors. There is no assurance that WPI will be successful in its continuing restructuring efforts, the failure of which could adversely impact WPI’s profitability and ability to compete effectively. There has been consolidation of retailers of WPI’s products that may reduce its profitability. Retailers of consumer goods have consolidated and become more powerful over time. As buying power has become more concentrated, pricing pressure on vendors has grown. With the ability to buy imported products directly from foreign sources, retailers’ pricing leverage has increased and also allowed for growth in private label brands that displace and compete with WPI proprietary brands. Retailers’ pricing leverage has resulted in a decline in WPI’s unit pricing and margins and resulted in a shift in product mix to more private label programs. If WPI is unable to diminish the decline in its pricing and margins, it may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. The retail industry in the United States is highly competitive and subject to the various economic cycles of consumer demand. WPI is subject to the retailers’ demand for products as manifest by underlying consumer spending. Retailers of consumer goods are dependent upon consumer spending. In turn, consumer spending is broadly a function of the overall economic environment. Given the weaknesses, both in the overall economy and of comparable retail store sales, the level of consumer retail spending for home textile products is likely to decline, which would have an adverse impact on WPI’s business and financial results. WPI may incur adverse financial consequences if its retail customers experience adverse financial results. To the extent that WPI’s retailers of consumer goods are faced with financial difficulties due to weakened consumer demand, depending upon the amount of business that WPI does with any such customer, WPI’s financial results may be adversely affected. This adverse impact could arise out of the potential recoverability of a receivable from a financially impaired retailer or from this customer doing less business with WPI. WPI believes it maintains adequate receivable reserves for specifically known events and an overall general provision for unknown circumstances. However, depending upon the magnitude of any future unknown event, these reserves may not be sufficient. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If it does not comply with these regulations, it may incur significant costs in the future to become compliant. WPI is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge, storage, handling, usage and disposal of a variety of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes used in, or resulting from, its operations, including potential remediation obligations under those laws and regulations. WPI’s operations are also governed by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to employee safety and health which, among other things, establish exposure limitations for cotton dust, formaldehyde, asbestos and noise, and which regulate chemical, physical and ergonomic hazards in the workplace. Consumer product safety laws, regulations and standards at the federal and state level govern the manufacture and sale of products by WPI. Although WPI does not expect that compliance with any of these laws and regulations will adversely affect its operations, we cannot assure you that regulatory requirements will not become more stringent in the future or that WPI will not incur significant costs to comply with those requirements. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS Railcar The highly cyclical nature of the railcar industry and restricted credit markets may result in lower revenues during economic downturns. The North American railcar market has been, and ARI expects it to continue to be highly cyclical. The recent worldwide financial turmoil and associated economic downturn has adversely affected the overall railcar industry as well as sales of ARI’s railcars and other products and has caused it to slow its production rates. For example, over approximately the past two and a half years, ARI has experienced a decrease in demand and an increase in pricing pressures in the railcar markets, and over the past three years its new railcar orders have declined from approximately 2,510 in 2007, to approximately 280 in fiscal 2008 and none in fiscal 2009. We anticipate that the current economic downturn is likely to continue to adversely affect sales of ARI’s railcars and other products and ARI expects its shipments and revenues to decrease in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009. We cannot assure you that these conditions will improve soon, if at all. Downturns in part or all of the railcar manufacturing industry may continue to occur in the future, resulting in decreased demand for ARI’s products and services. Most of the end users of ARI’s railcars acquire them through leasing arrangements with its leasing company customers. The current economic environment and restricted credit markets have resulted in stricter borrowing conditions and, in some cases, higher interest rates for new borrowings, either of which could increase the cost of, or potentially deter, new leasing arrangements. These factors could cause ARI’s leasing company customers to purchase fewer railcars. In addition, the slow-down of the U.S. economy has reduced and may continue to reduce requirements for the transport of products carried by the railcars ARI manufactures. These factors have resulted and may continue to result in decreased demand and increased pricing pressures on the sales of railcars. Sales of other of ARI’s industrial products also have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the slowdown in industrial output, as well. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our Railcar operations. ARI depends upon a small number of customers that represent a large percentage of its revenues. The loss of any single significant customer, a reduction in sales to any such significant customer or any such significant customer’s inability to pay ARI in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our Railcar operations. Railcars are typically sold pursuant to large, periodic orders, and therefore, a limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of railcar sales in any given year. ARI’s top ten customers accounted for approximately 90.0%, 90.7% and 87.9% of its total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. Moreover, ARI’s top three customers accounted for approximately 85.2%, 82.0% and 80.1% of its total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. In addition, one of ARI’s affiliated customers accounted for 68.3% of its backlog as of December 31, 2009. The loss of any significant portion of its sales to any major customer, the loss of a single major customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of its major customers could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and financial results. If one of ARI’s significant customers was unable to pay due to financial conditions, it could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. ARI operates in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete successfully, which would materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI faces intense competition in all of its markets. In its railcar manufacturing business, ARI has three primary competitors. Certain of its competitors have recently expanded their capabilities into its focused railcar markets. Any of these competitors may, from time to time, have greater resources than does ARI. Some railcar manufacturers produce railcars primarily for use in their own railcar leasing operations, competing directly with leasing companies, some of which are ARI’s largest customers. ARI’s current competitors may increase their participation, or new competitors may enter into the railcar markets in which it competes. Strong competition within the industry, which has been exacerbated by the recent economic downturn, has led to pricing pressures and could limit ARI’s ability to maintain or increase prices or obtain better margins on its railcars. These pressures may intensify if consolidation among its competitors occurs. If ARI produces any 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS types of railcars other than what it currently produces, ARI will be competing with other manufacturers that may have more experience with that railcar type. New competitors, or alliances among existing competitors, may emerge in the railcar components industry and rapidly gain market share. ARI competes with numerous companies in its railcar fleet management and railcar repair services businesses, ranging from companies with greater resources than it has to small, local companies. Technological innovation by any of its existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which ARI does business, could put it at a competitive disadvantage and could cause it to lose market share. Increased competition for the sales of its railcars, its fleet management and repair services and its railcar components could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could materially adversely affect its prospects and our Railcar operations. The cost of raw materials and components that ARI uses to manufacture railcars, particularly steel, are subject to escalation and surcharges and could increase. Any increase in these costs or delivery delays of these raw materials may materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. The cost of raw materials, including steel, and components, including scrap metal, used in the production of ARI’s railcars, represents approximately 80.0% to 85.0% of its manufacturing costs. ARI has provisions in all of its current railcar manufacturing contracts that allow it to pass on to its customers, price fluctuations in and surcharges related to certain raw materials, including steel, as well as certain components. ARI may not be able to pass on price increases to its customers in the future, which could adversely affect its operating margins and cash flows. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of steel, or any other material or component used in the production of its railcars, may have a material adverse effect on our Railcar operations. Such price increases could reduce demand for ARI’s railcars. As customers may not accept contracts with price adjustment clauses in the future, ARI may lose railcar orders or enter into contracts with fixed pricing provisions or other less favorable contract terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of ARI’s raw material or component suppliers were unable to continue their businesses or were to seek bankruptcy relief, the availability or price of the materials ARI uses could be adversely affected. Deliveries of its raw materials and components may also fluctuate depending on various factors including supply and demand for the raw material or component, or governmental regulation relating to the raw material or component, including regulation relating to importation. Fluctuations in the supply of components and raw materials ARI uses in manufacturing railcars, which are often only available from a limited number of suppliers, could cause production delays or reductions in the number of railcars it manufactures, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI’s railcar manufacturing business depends on the adequate supply of numerous railcar components, such as railcar wheels, axles, brakes, tank railcar heads, sideframes, bearings, yokes, bolsters and other heavy castings. Some of these components are only available from a limited number of domestic suppliers. Strong demand can cause industry-wide shortages of many critical components as reliable suppliers could reach capacity production levels. Supply constraints in its industry are exacerbated because, although multiple suppliers may produce certain components, railcar manufacturing regulations and the physical capabilities of manufacturing facilities restrict the types and sizes of components and raw materials that manufacturers may use. In addition, ARI does not carry significant inventories of certain components and procures many of its components on an as needed basis. In the event that its suppliers of railcar components and raw materials were to stop or reduce the production of railcar components and raw materials that it uses, or refuse to do business with ARI for any reason, ARI’s business would be disrupted. ARI’s inability to obtain components and raw materials in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in significant delays or reductions in railcar shipments and could materially or adversely affect its operating results. If any of ARI’s significant suppliers of railcar components were to shut down operations, its business and financial results could be affected as it may incur substantial delays and significant expense in finding alternative sources. The quality and reliability of alternative sources may not be the same and these alternative sources may charge significantly higher prices. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to ARI’s facilities, particularly its railcar manufacturing complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas, could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at ARI’s complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas or at any of its component manufacturing facilities, whether as a result of equipment failure or any other reason, could reduce, prevent or delay production of its railcars or railcar and industrial components, which could alter the scheduled delivery dates to its customers and affect its production schedule. This could result in the termination of orders, the loss of future sales and a negative impact to ARI’s reputation with its customers and in the railcar industry, all of which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. All of ARI’s facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados or weather conditions. ARI may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, delays in equipment deliveries, or extensive damage to any of its facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our Railcar operations. Uncertainty surrounding acceptance of ARI’s new railcar offerings by its customers, and costs associated with those new offerings, could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI’s strategy depends in part on its continued development and sale of new railcar designs to expand or maintain its market share in its current railcar markets and new railcar markets. Any new or modified railcar design that ARI develops may not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace and any such products may not be able to compete successfully with existing railcar designs or new railcar designs that may be introduced by its competitors. Furthermore, ARI may experience significant initial costs of production of new railcar product lines related to training, labor and operating inefficiencies. To the extent that the total costs of production significantly exceed its anticipated costs of production, ARI may incur a loss on its sale of new railcar product lines. The variable purchase patterns of ARI’s railcar customers and the timing of completion, customer acceptance and shipment of orders may cause its revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which could result in significant fluctuations in our Railcar segment quarterly results. ARI’s results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected by the number and type of railcars manufactured and shipped in that period, which is impacted by customer needs that vary greatly year to year, as discussed above. The customer acceptance and title transfer or customer acceptance and shipment of ARI’s railcars determines when it records the revenues associated with its railcar sales. Given this, the timing of customer acceptance and title transfer of ARI’s railcars could cause fluctuations in our Railcar segment quarterly results. The railroads could potentially go on strike or have other service interruptions, which could ultimately create a bottleneck and potentially cause ARI to slow down or halt its shipment and production schedules, which could have a materially adverse affect on our Railcar operations. As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of ARI’s sales and operating results between quarterly periods within the same year and between quarterly periods within different years may not be meaningful and, as such, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of ARI’s future performance. Some of ARI’s railcar services and component manufacturing employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages by them or unions formed by some or all of ARI’s other employees in the future could adversely affect our Railcar operations. As of December 31, 2009, the employees at ARI’s sites covered by collective bargaining agreements collectively represent approximately 17.2% of ARI’s total workforce. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or ARI’s potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot guarantee that ARI’s relations with its railcar services workforce will remain positive nor can we guarantee that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize ARI’s railcar 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS manufacturing employees or employees at some of its other facilities. If ARI’s workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, ARI could experience a significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, ARI could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with layoffs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of its operations. ARI manufacturer’s warranties expose it to potentially significant claims. ARI may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future relating to workmanship and materials. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to ARI’s reputation, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. Unresolved warranty claims could result in users of its products bringing legal actions against ARI. If ARI is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, ARI’s ability to compete in the market may be harmed. Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent ARI’s competitors from duplicating its products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit ARI to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Any of ARI’s patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. ARI cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any reason. If ARI’s patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded its products could be impaired, which could significantly impede its ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI’s pending or future patent applications held by it may not result in an issued patent and, if patents are issued to ARI, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The U.S. Federal courts may invalidate ARI’s patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around ARI’s patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on ARI’s sales. If ARI’s intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, it may not be able to commercialize it technologies, products or services and its competitors could commercialize its technologies, which could result in a decrease in ARI’s sales and market share and could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. ARI’s products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and prevent ARI from using technology that is essential to its products. ARI cannot guarantee you that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against ARI, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm its reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert ARI’s management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of ARI’s business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force ARI to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of its products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect its revenue; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, its products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may be costly and time-consuming even if possible. 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or ARI’s failure to license essential technology, its sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our Railcar operations. Food Packaging Viskase faces competitors that are better capitalized than it is, and the continuous-flow nature of the casings manufacturing process forces competitors to compete based on price in order to maintain volume, which could adversely affect our Food Packaging operations. Viskase faces competition in the United States and internationally from competitors that may have substantially greater financial resources than it has. The cellulosic casings industry includes several competitors that are larger and better capitalized than Viskase is. Currently, Viskase’s primary competitors include Viscofan, S.A., Kalle Nalo GmbH, and VT Holding Group, although new competitors could enter the market or competing products could be introduced. Although small cellulosic prices have experienced annual increases since 2006, and Viskase believes that the current output in its industry is in balance with global demand and that levels of capacity utilization are high, the continuous-flow nature of the casings manufacturing process has historically required competitors in its industry to compete based on price in order to maintain volume, which could result in lower pricing in future years. Viskase attempts to differentiate its products on the basis of product quality and performance, product development, service, sales and distribution, but Viskase and competitors in its industry have used price as a competitive factor in an attempt to obtain greater volumes. If prices decline, Viskase may not be able to achieve profitability, whereas certain of its competitors who are better capitalized may be positioned to absorb such price declines. Any of these factors could result in a material reduction of our Food Packaging operations. Viskase receives its raw materials from a limited number of suppliers, and problems with its suppliers could impair its ability to meet its customers’ product demands. Viskase’s principal raw materials, paper and pulp, constitute an important aspect and cost factor of its operations. Viskase generally purchases its paper and pulp from a single source or a small number of suppliers. Any inability of its suppliers to timely deliver raw materials or any unanticipated adverse change in its suppliers could be disruptive and costly to Viskase. Viskase’s inability to obtain raw materials from its suppliers would require it to seek alternative sources. These alternative sources may not be adequate for all of Viskase’s raw material needs, nor may adequate raw material substitutes exist in a form that its processes could be modified to use. These risks could materially and adversely affect our Food Packaging operations. Viskase’s failure to efficiently respond to industry changes in casings technology could jeopardize its ability to retain its customers and maintain its market share. Viskase and other participants in its industry have considered alternatives to cellulosic casings for many years. As resin technology improves or other technologies develop, alternative casings or other manufacturing methods may be developed that threaten the long-term sustainability and profitability of Viskase’s cellulosic casings, which is its core product, and its fibrous casings. Viskase’s failure to anticipate, develop or efficiently and timely integrate new technologies that provide viable alternatives to cellulosic casings, including plastic and film alternatives, may cause it to lose customers and market share to competitors integrating such technologies, which, in turn, would negatively impact our Food Packaging operations. Sales of Viskase’s products could be negatively affected by problems or concerns with the safety and quality of food products. Viskase could be adversely affected if consumers in the food markets were to lose confidence in the safety and quality of meat or poultry products, particularly with respect to processed meat or poultry products for which casings are used, such as hot dogs, deli meats and sausages. Outbreaks of, or even adverse publicity about the possibility of, diseases such as avian influenza and “mad cow disease,” food-borne pathogens such as E. coli and listeria and any other food safety problems or concerns relating to meat and poultry products may discourage consumers from buying such products. These risks could also result in additional governmental regulations, or cause production and delivery disruptions or product recalls. Each of these risks could adversely affect the demand for Viskase’s products, and consequently, our Food Packaging operations. 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changing dietary trends and consumer preferences could weaken the demand for Viskase’s products. Various medical studies detailing the health-related attributes of particular foods, including meat and poultry products, affect the purchase patterns, dietary trends and consumption preferences of consumers. These patterns, trends and preferences are routinely changing. For example, general dietary concerns about meat products, such as the cholesterol, calorie, sodium and fat content of such products, could result in reduced demand for such products, which would, in turn, cause a reduction in the demand for Viskase’s products and a decrease in its sales volume and revenue. Business interruptions at any of Viskase’s production facilities could increase its operating costs, decrease its sales or cause it to lose customers. The reliability of Viskase’s production facilities is critical to the success of its business. In recent years, Viskase has streamlined its productive capacity to be better aligned with its sales volumes. At current operating levels, Viskase has little or no excess production capacity for certain products. If the operations of any of its manufacturing facilities were interrupted or significantly delayed for any reason, including labor stoppages, Viskase may be unable to shift production to another facility without incurring a significant drop in production. Such a drop in production would negatively affect its sales and its relationships with its customers. Viskase’s international sales and operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations, all of which could impair its ability to do business at the international level. Viskase currently has manufacturing or sales and distribution centers in seven foreign countries: Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico and Poland. Its international sales and operations may be subject to various political and economic risks including, but not limited to: possible unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations or hyperinflation; changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; governmental regulations, including import and export controls; tariffs; limits on the repatriation of funds; and taxes. Viskase’s sales to customers located outside the United States generally are subject to taxes on the repatriation of funds. In addition, international operations in certain parts of the world may be subject to international balance of payments difficulties that may raise the possibility of delay or loss in the collection of accounts receivable from sales to customers in those countries. Historically, net sales to customers located outside the United States represent the majority of Viskase’s total net sales. Should any of these risks occur, it could impair Viskase’s ability to export its products or conduct sales to customers located outside of the United States and result in a loss of sales and profits from its international operations. Continued consolidation of Viskase’s customers and increasing competition for those customers may put pressure on its sales volumes and revenues. In recent years, the trend among Viskase’s customers has been towards consolidation within the meat processing industry. These consolidations have enhanced the purchasing power of its customers who, not being contractually obligated to purchase its products, tend to exert increased pressure with respect to pricing terms, product quality and new products. As Viskase’s customer base continues to consolidate, the already high level of competition for the business of fewer customers is expected to intensify. If Viskase does not continue to enhance the value of its product offering in a way that provides greater benefit to its customers, Viskase’s sales volumes and revenues could decrease. Viskase’s intellectual property rights may be inadequate or violated, or it may be subject to claims of infringement, both of which could negatively affect its financial condition. Viskase relies on a combination of trademarks, patents, trade secret rights and other rights to protect its intellectual property. Viskase’s trademark or patent applications may not be approved and our trademarks or patents may be challenged by third parties. Viskase cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will prevent the misappropriation of its intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect its rights as fully as the laws of the United States. From time to time, it has been necessary for Viskase to enforce its intellectual property rights against infringements by third parties, and Viskase expects to 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS continue to do so in the ordinary course of its business. Viskase also may be subjected to claims by others that it has violated their intellectual property rights. Even if Viskase prevails, third party-initiated or company-initiated claims may be time consuming and expensive to resolve, and may result in a diversion of Viskase’s time and resources. The occurrence of any of these factors could diminish the value of its trademark, patent and intellectual property portfolio, increase competition within its industry and negatively impact its sales volume and revenues. A substantial portion of Viskase’s business is conducted through foreign subsidiaries, and its failure to generate sufficient cash flow from these subsidiaries, or otherwise repatriate or receive cash from these subsidiaries, could result in its inability to repay its indebtedness. Viskase’s sales to customers located outside the United States are conducted primarily through subsidiaries organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside of the United States. Viskase’s ability to meet its debt service obligations with cash from foreign subsidiaries will depend upon the results of operations of these subsidiaries and may be subject to contractual or other restrictions and other business considerations. In particular, to the extent Viskase’s foreign subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness to expand its operations, the ability of its foreign subsidiaries to provide us cash may be limited. In addition, dividend and interest payments to Viskase from its foreign subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which would reduce the amount of funds it receives from such foreign subsidiaries. Dividends and other distributions from Viskase’s foreign subsidiaries may also be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on repatriation, which could further reduce the amount of funds it receives from such foreign subsidiaries. Holding Company Investments We may not be able to identify suitable investments, and our investments may not result in favorable returns or may result in losses. Our partnership agreement allows us to take advantage of investment opportunities we believe exist outside of our operating businesses. The equity securities in which we may invest may include common stock, preferred stock and securities convertible into common stock, as well as warrants to purchase these securities. The debt securities in which we may invest may include bonds, debentures, notes or non-rated mortgage-related securities, municipal obligations, bank debt and mezzanine loans. Certain of these securities may include lower rated or non-rated securities which may provide the potential for higher yields and therefore may entail higher risk and may include the securities of bankrupt or distressed companies. In addition, we may engage in various investment techniques, including derivatives, options and futures transactions, foreign currency transactions, “short” sales and leveraging for either hedging or other purposes. We may concentrate our activities by owning significant or controlling interest in certain investments. We may not be successful in finding suitable opportunities to invest our cash and our strategy of investing in undervalued assets may expose us to numerous risks. We have entered into a covered affiliate agreement, pursuant to which we (and certain of our subsidiaries) have agreed, in general, to be bound by certain restrictions on our investments in any assets that the General Partners deem suitable for the Private Funds, other than government and agency bonds, cash equivalents and investments in non-public companies. We and our subsidiaries will not be restricted from making investments in the securities of certain companies in which Mr. Icahn or companies he controlled had an interest in as of the date of the initial launch of the Private Funds, and companies in which we had an interest as of the date of the acquisition of the partnership interests on August 8, 2007 of our Investment Management business. We and our subsidiaries, either alone or acting together with a group, will not be restricted from (i) acquiring all or any portion of the assets of any public company in connection with a negotiated transaction or series of related negotiated transactions or (ii) engaging in a negotiated merger transaction with a public company and, pursuant thereto, conducting and completing a tender offer for securities of the company. Our investments may be subject to significant uncertainties. Our investments may not be successful for many reasons including, but not limited to: • fluctuations of interest rates; • lack of control in minority investments; 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS • worsening of general economic and market conditions; • lack of diversification; • fluctuations of U.S. dollar exchange rates; and • adverse legal and regulatory developments that may affect particular businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 